# Article: __RESIDENTIAL ARCHITECTURE IN A POST-PANDEMIC WORLD: IMPLICATIONS OF COVID-19 FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION AND FOR ADAPTING HERITAGE BUILDINGS__ (spennemann_residential_2021)

* [10.3992/jgb.16.1.199](https://doi.org/10.3992/jgb.16.1.199)
* Cluster: [building-space](cluster_7.md)


## Keywords

[coronavirus](keyword_coronavirus.md), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic.md), [aerosol](keyword_aerosol.md), [design](keyword_design.md)

## Abstract

ABSTRACT COVID-19 has highlighted the disruptive,
cross-sectorial effects a sudden-onset pandemic has on a
globally interconnected world. A particularly insidious
component is the high percentage of asymptomatic cases
allowing the virus to seed undetected. The design of
residential architecture will need to adapt to the new
reality that COVID-19 will not be the last coronavirus
epidemic. This paper discusses the implications of COVID-19
for new residential construction. It argues for a
containment space, separating the largely uncontrollable
external environment from the internal threat-reduced
residential space, for a separation of visitor
entertainment areas and private sleeping areas, as well as
the design of a spatially separated master bedroom that can
double as a self-isolation space if the need arises. The
implications of this new design on existing housing stock
are also discussed. The advocated concepts are novel and
advance the design considerations for future residential
developments.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_spennemann_residential_2021.jpg)

### References 

* [2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic:
Built Environment Considerations To Reduce
Transmission](article_dietz_2019_2020.md)
* [Antivirus-built environment: Lessons learned from
Covid-19 pandemic](article_megahed_antivirus-built_2020.md)
* [How can airborne transmission of COVID-19 indoors be
minimised?](article_morawska_how_2020-1.md)

### Cited by 

* [Prophylactic Architecture: Formulating the Concept
of Pandemic-Resilient Homes](article_elrayies_prophylactic_2022.md)
