# Article: __Psychological Effects of Home Confinement and Social Distancing Derived from COVID-19 in the General Population—A Systematic Review__ (rodriguez-fernandez_psychological_2021)

* [10.3390/ijerph18126528](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph18126528)
* Cluster: [health-city](cluster_0.md)


## Keywords

[anxiety](keyword_anxiety.md), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic.md)

## Abstract

(1) Background: Home confinement and social distancing are
two of the main public health measures to curb the spread
of SARS-Cov-2, which can have harmful consequences on
people’s mental health. This systematic review aims to
identify the best available scientific evidence on the
impact that home confinement and social distancing, derived
from the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, have had on the mental health
of the general population in terms of depression, stress
and anxiety. (2) Methods: A systematic search was conducted
on PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science and ScienceDirect between
2 January 2021 and 7 January 2021, in accordance with the
recommendations of the PRISMA Declaration. The selection of
studies and the evaluation of their methodological quality
were performed in pairs, independently and blindly, based
on predetermined eligibility criteria. (3) Results: The 26
investigations reviewed were developed in different regions
and countries. Factors that are associated with poor mental
health were female gender, young ages, having no income and
suffering from a previous psychiatric illness. Inadequate
management of the pandemic by authorities and a lack or
excess of information also contributed to worse mental
health. (4) Conclusions: There are groups of people more
likely to suffer higher levels of anxiety, depression and
stress during the restrictive measures derived from
COVID-19.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_rodriguez-fernandez_psychological_2021.jpg)

