# Article: __Ventilation use in nonmedical settings during COVID-19: Cleaning protocol, maintenance, and recommendations__ (nembhard_ventilation_2020)

* [10.1177/0748233720967528](https://doi.org/10.1177/0748233720967528)
* Cluster: [air-sars](cluster_2)


## Keywords

* [hvac](keyword_hvac), [ventilation](keyword_ventilation), [covid-19](keyword_covid-19), [clean](keyword_clean), [ventilation system](keyword_ventilation_system), [filter](keyword_filter), [fan](keyword_fan), [sar cov 2](keyword_sar_cov_2), [transmission](keyword_transmission), [airborne transmission](keyword_airborne_transmission), [natural ventilation](keyword_natural_ventilation), hvac system, nadca, [aerosol](keyword_aerosol), mechanical ventilation



## Keywords at large

* [biophilic design](keyword_biophilic_design), [architecture](keyword_architecture), [sustainable architecture](keyword_sustainable_architecture), [nature](keyword_nature), [design](keyword_design), [biophilic](keyword_biophilic), [environ](keyword_environ), [biophilia](keyword_biophilia), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [health](keyword_health)

## Abstract

Coronavirus disease 2019, otherwise referred to as
COVID-19, started in China and quickly became a worldwide
pandemic. Beginning in March 2020, nonessential businesses
in the United States were closed, and many communities were
under shelter-in-place orders. As of May 2020, some
business sectors started reopening, even amidst concerns of
worker health as the pandemic continued. In addition to
physical distancing, cleaning and disinfection routines,
and using face coverings, building ventilation can also be
an important risk mitigation measure for controlling
exposure to SARS-CoV-2 indoors. A number of studies to
date, however, have focused on ventilation in medical
facilities (e.g. hospitals) as the risk of transmission of
SARS-CoV-2 is higher there (because of the close proximity
of workers to patients who have the disease and their
treatment procedures). Few studies have focused on
ventilation use in nonmedical settings (e.g. office
buildings and school classrooms), despite the large
population of workers and community members in these
facilities. In this article, we review the role that
building ventilation can play in minimizing the risk of
SARS-CoV-2 transmission in nonmedical environments and some
recommended protocols to follow for its proper use,
including cleaning and maintaining mechanical ventilation
systems for businesses, schools, and homes.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_nembhard_ventilation_2020.jpg)

### References 

* [How can airborne transmission of COVID-19 indoors be
minimised?](article_morawska_how_2020)

### Cited by 


* [A critical review of heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning (HVAC) systems within the context of a
global SARS-CoV-2 epidemic](article_elsaid_critical_2021)
