# Article: __Construction of a Linked Data Set of COVID-19 Knowledge Graphs: Development and Applications__ (wang_construction_2022)

* [10.2196/37215](https://doi.org/10.2196/37215)
* Cluster: [building-health](cluster_10)


## Keywords

[virus](keyword_virus)

## Abstract

Background With the continuous spread of COVID-19,
information about the worldwide pandemic is exploding.
Therefore, it is necessary and significant to organize such
a large amount of information. As the key branch of
artificial intelligence, a knowledge graph (KG) is helpful
to structure, reason, and understand data.

Objective To improve the utilization value of the
information and effectively aid researchers to combat
COVID-19, we have constructed and successively released a
unified linked data set named OpenKG-COVID19, which is one
of the largest existing KGs related to COVID-19.
OpenKG-COVID19 includes 10 interlinked COVID-19 subgraphs
covering the topics of encyclopedia, concept, medical,
research, event, health, epidemiology, goods, prevention,
and character.

Methods In this paper, we introduce the key techniques
exploited in building COVID-19 KGs in a top-down manner.
First, the schema of the modeling process for each KG in
OpenKG-COVID19 is described. Second, we propose different
methods for extracting knowledge from open government
sites, professional texts, public domainâ€“specific
sources, and public encyclopedia sites. The curated 10
COVID-19 KGs are further linked together at both the schema
and data levels. In addition, we present the naming
convention for OpenKG-COVID19.

Results OpenKG-COVID19 has more than 2572 concepts, 329,600
entities, 513 properties, and 2,687,329 facts, and the data
set will be updated continuously. Each COVID-19 KG was
evaluated, and the average precision was found to be above
93\%. We have developed search and browse interfaces and a
SPARQL endpoint to improve user access. Possible
intelligent applications based on OpenKG-COVID19 for
further development are also described.

Conclusions A KG is useful for intelligent
question-answering, semantic searches, recommendation
systems, visualization analysis, and decision-making
support. Research related to COVID-19, biomedicine, and
many other communities can benefit from OpenKG-COVID19.
Furthermore, the 10 KGs will be continuously updated to
ensure that the public will have access to sufficient and
up-to-date knowledge.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_wang_construction_2022.jpg)

