# Article: __COVID-19 Pandemic: Rethinking Strategies for Resilient Urban Design, Perceptions, and Planning__ (afrin_covid-19_2021)

* URL: [https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/frsc.2021.668263](https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/frsc.2021.668263)
* Year: 2021
* Abstract: From the beginning of the COVID-19 crisis, the scientific
community has been continuously trying to assess the virus,
its socio-environmental impacts, regulatory/adaptation
policies, and plans. The emergency is to develop
pandemic-resilient city planning and management in order to
tackle the infectious diseases during COVID-19. Such
development includes the reframing of unsustainable urban
patterns, hazards, and social inequalities to be prepared
for the emerging cases. In this study, we focus on the
assessment of disaster risk management (DRM), which will
help to develop pandemic-resilient urban strategies
(response, mitigation, and preparedness phase) through
analyzing previously published literature. Short- and
long-term recommendations for pandemic resilience urban
planning and design have also been provided. In the
response phase, implementation of the smart and resilient
city design and policies has been highlighted to identify
disease transmission. In the mitigation phase, new
technological approaches can be adopted for better
management of present and future pandemics. The physical
(urban access, infrastructure, environmental factors, and
land use patterns) and non-physical (socio-cultural,
governance, and economic factors) aspects of resilient
urban strategies have been focused, which may help to
develop understanding of health- and disaster-related risks
in pandemic. In the preparedness phase, proactive measures
such as capacity building of people toward any outbreak and
different simulation processes (models of transmission
pattern) can be adopted for future pandemics. We also
discuss about the enhancement of urban resiliency in
housing, public spaces, and cities that may bring the
effective outcome of DRM framework to combat pandemic. The
study focuses on the major lessons that can be adopted for
post-pandemic urban resilient planning related to disaster
management and climate change adaptation, preventing
extensive challenges of sustainability apart. In the
following months and years, it will be difficult to assess
various changes to develop urban planning and design in the
post-COVID-19 world. However, this study expresses the
possibility of creating good opportunities for policymakers
and city planners to undertake significant transformative
and advanced actions during the three different phases of
DRM. This study presents a novel approach to delineate the
scope of DRM framework in achieving more resilient cities
(RC) to tackle future pandemics. This study will also
crucially help the planners and decision-makers in better
assessing and addressing the strategic and resilient urban
design and planning approach in future.



## Keywords

[pandemic](keyword_pandemic), [design](keyword_design), [city](keyword_city), [resilience](keyword_resilience), [china](keyword_china), [epidemic](keyword_epidemic), [infrastructure](keyword_infrastructure)


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_afrin_covid-19_2021.jpg)

