# Article: __An Overview of Ontologies and Tool Support for COVID-19 Analytics__ (ahmad_overview_2021)

* [10.1109/EDOCW52865.2021.00026](https://doi.org/10.1109/EDOCW52865.2021.00026)
* Cluster: [ontology-datum](cluster_12)


## Keywords

[ontology](keyword_ontology), [analytic](keyword_analytic), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic), [study](keyword_study)

## Abstract

Context: The outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic of the
new COVID-19 disease (COVID-19 for short) demands
empowering existing medical, economic, and social emergency
backend systems with data analytics capabilities. An
impediment in taking advantages of data analytics in these
systems is the lack of a unified framework or reference
model. Ontologies are highlighted as a promising solution
to bridge this gap by providing a formal representation of
COVID-19 concepts such as symptoms, infections rate,
contact tracing, and drug modelling. Ontology-based
solutions enable the integration of diverse data sources
that leads to a better understanding of pandemic data,
management of smart lockdowns by identifying pandemic
hotspots, and knowledge-driven inference, reasoning, and
recommendations to tackle surrounding issues.Objective:
This study aims to investigate COVID-19 related challenges
that can benefit from ontology-based solutions, analyse
available tool support, and identify emerging challenges
that impact research and development of ontologies for
COVID-19. Moreover, reference architecture models are
presented to facilitate the design and development of
innovative solutions that rely on ontology-based solutions
and relevant tool support to address a multitude of
challenges related to COVID-19.Method: We followed the
formal guidelines of systematic mapping studies and
systematic reviews to identify a total of 56 solutions –
published research on ontology models for COVID-19 – and
qualitatively selected 10 of them for the review.Results:
Thematic analysis of the investigated solutions pinpoints
five research themes including telehealth, health
monitoring, disease modelling, data intelligence, and drug
modelling. Each theme is supported by tool(s) enabling
automation and user-decision support. Furthermore, we
present four reference architectures that can address
recurring challenges towards the development of the next
generation of ontology-based solutions for COVID-19
analytics.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_ahmad_overview_2021.jpg)

### References 

* [Response to COVID-19 in Taiwan: Big Data
Analytics, New Technology, and Proactive
Testing](article_wang_response_2020)

### Cited by 


