# Article: __Should I Stay or Should I Go? Tourists’ COVID-19 Risk Perception and Vacation Behavior Shift__ (bratic_should_2021)

* [10.3390/su13063573](https://doi.org/10.3390/su13063573)
* Cluster: [resilience-health](cluster_4)


## Keywords

* [manhattan](keyword_manhattan), [tour](keyword_tour), [new york city](keyword_new_york_city), trenton, [new jersey](keyword_new_jersey), [anxiety](keyword_anxiety), [covid-19](keyword_covid-19), [tourism](keyword_tourism), [salt lake city](keyword_salt_lake_city), [university of utah](keyword_university_of_utah), travel anxiety, [risk perception](keyword_risk_perception), [travel](keyword_travel), [coronavirus](keyword_coronavirus), [covid 19 pandemic](keyword_covid_19_pandemic)



## Keywords at large

* [biophilic design](keyword_biophilic_design), [architecture](keyword_architecture), [sustainable architecture](keyword_sustainable_architecture), [nature](keyword_nature), [design](keyword_design), [biophilic](keyword_biophilic), [environ](keyword_environ), [biophilia](keyword_biophilia), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [health](keyword_health)

## Abstract

Without a doubt, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a
tremendous impact on global tourism for at least two
reasons: (1) imposed systematic travel restrictions that
discourage people from traveling even though they would
like to; and (2) increased travel anxiety due to the
perceived risk of the COVID-19 virus, causing people to
change their typical travel behavior. This study aims to
explore the role of Covid-19 in shaping future travel
behavior. More specifically, following the general model of
vacation behavior and the role of risk in travel behavior,
we investigate how COVID-19 influences travelers’
perceptions of risk and how this affects planned vacation
behavior. The results show that COVID-19 risk perception
per se influences typical forms of vacation behavior, but
this risk also leads to the development of travel anxiety,
which additionally influences only some forms of vacation
behavior. Empirical findings show that general anxiety,
which is not associated with Covid-19 risk perception, also
predicts some forms of planned changes in vacation
behaviour. The study concludes with recommendations on how
to reduce traveler uncertainty in order to recover
international leisure travel.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_bratic_should_2021.jpg)

### References 

* [The socio-economic implications of the coronavirus
pandemic (COVID-19): A review](article_nicola_socio-economic_2020)

### Cited by 


