# Article: __Air Disinfection for Airborne Infection Control with a Focus on COVID‐19: Why Germicidal UV is Essential
            <sup>†</sup>__ (nardell_air_2021)

* [10.1111/php.13421](https://doi.org/10.1111/php.13421)
* Cluster: [air-sars](cluster_2)


## Keywords

[ventilation](keyword_ventilation), [uv](keyword_uv), [disinfection](keyword_disinfection), [ultraviolet](keyword_ultraviolet), [transmission](keyword_transmission), [infectious](keyword_infectious), [germicidal](keyword_germicidal), [air](keyword_air)

## Abstract

Aerosol transmission is now widely accepted as the
principal way that COVID-19 is spread, as has the
importance of ventilation-natural and mechanical. But in
other than healthcare facilities, mechanical ventilation is
designed for comfort, not airborne infection control, and
cannot achieve the 6 to 12 room air changes per hour
recommended for airborne infection control. More efficient
air filters have been recommended in ventilation ducts
despite a lack of convincing evidence that SARS-CoV-2 virus
spreads through ventilation systems. Most transmission
appears to occur in rooms where both an infectious source
COVID-19 case and other susceptible occupants share the
same air. Only two established room-based technologies are
available to supplement mechanical ventilation: portable
room air cleaners and upper room germicidal UV air
disinfection. Portable room air cleaners can be effective,
but performance is limited by their clean air delivery rate
relative to room volume. SARS-CoV-2 is highly susceptible
to GUV, an 80-year-old technology that has been shown to
safely, quietly, effectively and economically produce the
equivalent of 10 to 20 or more air changes per hour under
real life conditions. For these reasons, upper room GUV is
the essential engineering intervention for reducing
COVID-19 spread.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_nardell_air_2021.jpg)

### References 

* [Upper-Room Ultraviolet Light and Negative Air
Ionization to Prevent Tuberculosis Transmission](article_escombe_upper-room_2009)
* [Far-UVC light (222 nm) efficiently and safely
inactivates airborne human coronaviruses](article_buonanno_far-uvc_2020)

### Cited by 


