# Article: __Health, Economic and Social Development Challenges of the COVID-19 Pandemic: Strategies for Multiple and Interconnected Issues__ (panneer_health_2022)

* [10.3390/healthcare10050770](https://doi.org/10.3390/healthcare10050770)
* Cluster: [health-city](cluster_0.md)


## Keywords

[pandemic](keyword_pandemic.md), [health](keyword_health.md), [economic](keyword_economic.md)

## Abstract

The COVID-19-pandemic-related economic and social crises
are leading to huge challenges for all spheres of human
life across the globe. Various challenges highlighted by
this pandemic include, but are not limited to, the need for
global health cooperation and security, better crisis
management, coordinated funding in public health
emergencies, and access to measures related to prevention,
treatment and control. This systematic review explores
health, economic and social development issues in a
COVID-19 pandemic context and aftermath. Accordingly, a
methodology that focuses on identifying relevant literature
with a focus on meta-analysis is used. A protocol with
inclusion and exclusion criteria was developed, with
articles from 15 December 2019 to 15 March 2022 included in
the study. This was followed by a review and data analysis.
The research results reveal that non-pharmaceutical
measures like social distancing, lockdown and quarantine
have created long-term impacts on issues such as changes in
production and consumption patterns, market crashes
resulting in the closure of business operations, and the
slowing down of the economy. COVID-19 has exposed huge
health inequalities across most countries due to social
stratification and unequal distribution of wealth and/or
resources. People from lower socio-economic backgrounds
lack access to essential healthcare services during this
critical time for both COVID-19 and other non-COVID
ailments. The review shows that there is minimal literature
available with evidence and empirical backup; similarly,
data/studies from all countries/regions are not available.
We propose that there is a need to conduct empirical
research employing a trans-disciplinary approach to develop
the most effective and efficient strategies to combat the
pandemic and its aftermath. There is a need to explore the
social and ecological determinants of this contagious
infection and develop strategies for the prevention and
control of COVID-19 or similar infections in future.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_panneer_health_2022.jpg)

### References 

* [Guidelines for Responding to COVID-19 Pandemic:
Best Practices, Impacts, and Future Research
Directions](article_assaad_guidelines_2021.md)

### Cited by 

* [Management of the COVID-19 pandemic: challenges,
practices, and organizational support](article_hossny_management_2022.md)
