# Article: __Management of the COVID-19 pandemic: challenges, practices, and organizational support__ (hossny_management_2022)

* [10.1186/s12912-022-00972-5](https://doi.org/10.1186/s12912-022-00972-5)
* Cluster: [building-health](cluster_10)


## Keywords

[hospital](keyword_hospital), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic), [management](keyword_management), [anxiety](keyword_anxiety), [healthcare](keyword_healthcare)

## Abstract

Abstract

Background Health organizations currently face tremendous
challenges in the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. To
do this, successful and proven scientific practices and
support are needed.

Aim This study aimed to explore the challenges, practices,
and organizational support dealt with by nursing managers
in the management of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Method A qualitative content analysis study evaluated 35
nursing managers in five university hospitals through a
semi-structured interview. The Consolidated Criteria for
Reporting Qualitative Research were used for this
qualitative study.

Results Three main themes emerged: Challenges include the
development of a COVID-19 crisis management plan, a
shortage in nursing staff, and psychological problems.
Practices include; changes in work schedules for nursing
staff, the exchange process, hospital preparation, and
training and education. And organizational support includes
both support at an organizational level and support at an
individual level.

Conclusion This study revealed that nursing managers are
faced with many challenges in the management of COVID-19,
requiring good practices and organizational support. This
study offers evidence for nursing managers to expect
problems that may arise during the pandemic.

Recommendations The COVID-19 pandemic requires the
development of an integrated plan, and this plan must be
disseminated to the hospitalâ€™s nursing and medical teams
to better equip them for the current and future crises.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_hossny_management_2022.jpg)

### References 

* [Health, Economic and Social Development Challenges
of the COVID-19 Pandemic: Strategies for Multiple
and Interconnected Issues](article_panneer_health_2022)

### Cited by 


