# Article: __Digital Twin of COVID-19 Mass Vaccination Centers__ (pilati_digital_2021)

* [10.3390/su13137396](https://doi.org/10.3390/su13137396)
* Cluster: [simulation-model](cluster_6)


## Keywords

* [simulation model](keyword_simulation_model), [simulation](keyword_simulation), [digital twin](keyword_digital_twin), [nurse](keyword_nurse), [vaccine](keyword_vaccine), [npat](keyword_npat), [covid-19](keyword_covid-19), [smartphone](keyword_smartphone), [dashboard](keyword_dashboard), [statistical distribution](keyword_statistical_distribution), queue, inoculation phase, [vaccination](keyword_vaccination), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic), [system](keyword_system)



## Keywords at large

* [biophilic design](keyword_biophilic_design), [architecture](keyword_architecture), [sustainable architecture](keyword_sustainable_architecture), [nature](keyword_nature), [design](keyword_design), [biophilic](keyword_biophilic), [environ](keyword_environ), [biophilia](keyword_biophilia), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [health](keyword_health)

## Abstract

The problem is the vaccination of a large number of people
in a short time period, using minimum space and resources.
The tradeoff is that this minimum number of resources must
guarantee a good service for the patients, represented by
the time spent in the system and in the queue. The goal is
to develop a digital twin which integrates the physical and
virtual systems and allows a real-time mapping of the
patient flow to create a sustainable and dynamic
vaccination center. Firstly, to reach this goal, a
discrete-event simulation model is implemented. The
simulation model is integrated with a mobile application
that automatically collects time measures. By processing
these measures, indicators can be computed to find
problems, run the virtual model to solve them, and
replicate improvements in the real system. The model is
tested in a South Tyrol vaccination clinic and the best
configuration found includes 31 operators and 306 places
dedicated for the queues. This configuration allows the
vaccination of 2164 patients in a 10-h shift, with a mean
process time of 25 min. Data from the APP are managed to
build the dashboard with indicators like number of people
in queue for each phase and resource utilization.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_pilati_digital_2021.jpg)

### References 

* [Internet of things (IoT) applications to fight against
COVID-19 pandemic](article_singh_internet_2020)

### Cited by 


