# Article: __Mobility Behaviour in View of the Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic—Public Transport Users in Gdansk Case Study__ (przybylowski_mobility_2021)

* [10.3390/su13010364](https://doi.org/10.3390/su13010364)
* Cluster: [resilience-health](cluster_4)


## Keywords

[mobility](keyword_mobility), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic), [safety](keyword_safety), [transport](keyword_transport)

## Abstract

The COVID-19 pandemic, like an earthquake, shocked our
civilization and is still having a devastating effect on
our lives. Guaranteeing an appropriate level of safety in
the conditions of an epidemic is a highly problematic issue
due to the subjectivism of social individuals, their
diverse attitudes, and past life experiences. Taking into
account the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines
regarding the pandemic, authorities all around the world
have reacted by issuing the necessary sets of advice and
legal acts. This resulted in immediate and severe
implications on mobility styles. The purpose of this paper
was to investigate the impact of COVID-19 on mobility
behaviours with special regard to public transport users,
in terms of their willingness to travel and their safety
criteria perceptions. The city of Gdańsk, in Poland,
located on the Baltic Sea, has been taken as an example.
The hypothesis was as follows: the epidemic phenomenon may
substantially affect mobility behaviours in terms of
subjective levels of safety and the mental comfort of
public transport users, resulting in avoiding this form of
transport. In accordance with the survey results, carried
out among the users, 90\% of respondents resigned or
limited their usage. Almost 75\% of them plan to return to
using public transport when the epidemic situation has
stabilized. The others, unfortunately, have completely lost
hope that public transport will ever be safe. These results
indicate decisively that the future of public transport in
cities, and the willingness of passengers to use it once
the epidemic is over, depends majorly on the perceived
comfort and safety during the epidemic. This means that
transport policies should be focused on enhancing these
perceptions and making sure that the image of public
transport is not in further decline; otherwise, it could
mean an almost impossible effort to encourage passengers to
return to using sustainable modes of transport in the
future.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_przybylowski_mobility_2021.jpg)

### References 

* [The effect of human mobility and control measures on the
COVID-19 epidemic in China](article_kraemer_effect_2020)
* [Responsible Transport: A post-COVID agenda for
transport policy and practice](article_budd_responsible_2020)

### Cited by 


* [A Review on Building Design as a Biomedical
System for Preventing COVID-19 Pandemic](article_amran_review_2022)
