# Article: __Preparing critical infrastructure for the future: Lessons learnt from the Covid-19 pandemic__ (tomalska_preparing_2022)

* [10.35467/sdq/146603](https://doi.org/10.35467/sdq/146603)
* Cluster: [resilience-health](cluster_4)


## Keywords

* 0 0 point, supply chain distruption, supply chain design, supply chain decision make complexity, supply chain decision make, supply chain complication, supply chain account, supply chain 4 0, [supply chain](keyword_supply_chain), supply base, supply as much outdoor air as possible, supply and production chain, supply and production, supply and distribution chain, supply and demand planning



## Keywords at large

* [biophilic design](keyword_biophilic_design), [architecture](keyword_architecture), [sustainable architecture](keyword_sustainable_architecture), [nature](keyword_nature), [design](keyword_design), [biophilic](keyword_biophilic), [environ](keyword_environ), [biophilia](keyword_biophilia), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [health](keyword_health)

## Abstract

The objective of this paper is to provide a view on the
problem of insufficient state protection of critical
infrastructure throughout the Covid-19 crisis. The paper
looks at this problem with regard to the definition of
critical infrastructure, its content, and also the
limitations of current approaches to critical
infrastructure protection. The examples relating to the
Covid-19 crisis show the practices adopted and suggest
possible steps forward. The research methodology
implemented in this research is based on a critical
analysis of the existing literature. The themes described
in this paper show there is an urgent need to change
current critical infrastructure protection approaches to a
resilience-based modus operandi. Specifically, this paper
highlights the need to shift the understanding of critical
infrastructure from an object-oriented approach towards
essential services/functions and to highlight its complex,
socio- technical nature. It also highlights the
deficiencies of current, prevention-based approaches to
critical infrastructure protection such as the insufficient
focus on identification and management process of
vulnerabilities, especially in relation to
(inter)dependencies resulting from interconnections with
other systems. The gravity of the situation caused by the
Covid-19 pandemic, despite its negative connotations, can
be used as an opportunity to examine the real condition of
protection of critical infrastructure. The pandemic
suggests that there is much left to be done and because of
the unpredictability of the future, we need to start acting
as soon as possible.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_tomalska_preparing_2022.jpg)

