# Article: __COVID-19 Prevention and Control Measures in Workplace Settings: A Rapid Review and Meta-Analysis__ (ingram_covid-19_2021)

* [10.3390/ijerph18157847](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph18157847)
* Cluster: [health-city](cluster_0)


## Keywords

[study](keyword_study), [surveillance](keyword_surveillance)

## Abstract

Workplaces can be high-risk environments for SARS-CoV-2
outbreaks and subsequent community transmission.
Identifying, understanding, and implementing effective
workplace SARS-CoV-2 infection prevention and control (IPC)
measures is critical to protect workers, their families,
and communities. A rapid review and meta-analysis were
conducted to synthesize evidence assessing the
effectiveness of COVID-19 IPC measures implemented in
global workplace settings through April 2021. Medline,
Embase, PubMed, and Cochrane Library were searched for
studies that quantitatively assessed the effectiveness of
workplace COVID-19 IPC measures. The included studies
comprised varying empirical designs and occupational
settings. Measures of interest included surveillance
measures, outbreak investigations, environmental
adjustments, personal protective equipment (PPE), changes
in work arrangements, and worker education. Sixty-one
studies from healthcare, nursing home, meatpacking,
manufacturing, and office settings were included,
accounting for \textasciitilde280,000 employees based in
Europe, Asia, and North America. Meta-analyses showed that
combined IPC measures resulted in lower employee COVID-19
positivity rates (0.2\% positivity; 95\% CI 0–0.4\%) than
single measures such as asymptomatic PCR testing (1.7\%;
95\% CI 0.9–2.9\%) and universal masking (24\%; 95\% CI
3.4–55.5\%). Modelling studies showed that combinations
of (i) timely and widespread contact tracing and case
isolation, (ii) facilitating smaller worker cohorts, and
(iii) effective use of PPE can reduce workplace
transmission. Comprehensive COVID-19 IPC measures
incorporating swift contact tracing and case isolation,
PPE, and facility zoning can effectively prevent workplace
outbreaks. Masking alone should not be considered
sufficient protection from SARS-CoV-2 outbreaks in the workplace.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_ingram_covid-19_2021.jpg)

