# Article: __Urban Green Infrastructure and Green Open Spaces: An Issue of Social Fairness in Times of COVID-19 Crisis__ (reinwald_urban_2021)

* [10.3390/su131910606](https://doi.org/10.3390/su131910606)
* Cluster: [space-urban](cluster_13)


## Keywords

* [vienna](keyword_vienna), [austria](keyword_austria), [wikipedia](keyword_wikipedia), [encyclopedia](keyword_encyclopedia), [climate change](keyword_climate_change), [health](keyword_health), [city](keyword_city), [ecosystem](keyword_ecosystem), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [new york](keyword_new_york), [environ](keyword_environ), [lockdown](keyword_lockdown), city of vienna, heat wave, switzerland



## Keywords at large

* [biophilic design](keyword_biophilic_design), [architecture](keyword_architecture), [sustainable architecture](keyword_sustainable_architecture), [nature](keyword_nature), [design](keyword_design), [biophilic](keyword_biophilic), [environ](keyword_environ), [biophilia](keyword_biophilia), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [health](keyword_health)

## Abstract

At the time of the restrictions and lockdown during the
COVID-19 pandemic, it became apparent how difficult it is
for city dwellers to adhere to the prescribed behavioural
measures and the protective distance in densely built urban
areas. Inner-city parks and green spaces were heavily used
for recreational purposes and were thus periodically
overcrowded. These observations highlight the need for
green open spaces in urban areas, especially in exceptional
situations regarding pandemics and climate-related heat
periods. Green open spaces and greened buildings help
cities and the population cope with the consequences of
climate change and have a decisive positive effect on human
health and well-being. This paper aims to outline which
social issues are related to the availability of green
infrastructure close to home and which health consequences
need to be considered. The COVID-19 challenges could offer
a chance and an opportunity to increase the resilience of
cities and their inhabitants in various terms. A
cross-disciplinary team of authors (public health, urban
and landscape planning, landscaping and vegetation
technologies science) describes and discusses challenges
and opportunities that arise from this crisis for cities
from an inter-disciplinary perspective, concluding that
urban green infrastructure helps in two ways: to adapt to
climate change and the challenges posed by COVID-19.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_reinwald_urban_2021.jpg)

