# Article: __A study on office workplace modification during the COVID-19 pandemic in The Netherlands__ (hou_study_2021)

* [10.1108/JCRE-10-2020-0051](https://doi.org/10.1108/JCRE-10-2020-0051)
* Cluster: [building-health](cluster_10)


## Keywords

* [covid 19 pandemic](keyword_covid_19_pandemic), [workplace](keyword_workplace), [organisation](keyword_organisation), [workplace management](keyword_workplace_management), [netherland](keyword_netherland), [business strategy](keyword_business_strategy), [workplace modification](keyword_workplace_modification), [office](keyword_office), [management](keyword_management), [crem](keyword_crem), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic), [social distancing](keyword_social_distancing), interview, [risk management](keyword_risk_management), [business](keyword_business)



## Keywords at large

* [biophilic design](keyword_biophilic_design), [architecture](keyword_architecture), [sustainable architecture](keyword_sustainable_architecture), [nature](keyword_nature), [design](keyword_design), [biophilic](keyword_biophilic), [environ](keyword_environ), [biophilia](keyword_biophilia), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [health](keyword_health)

## Abstract

Triggered by public concerns over office workplace safety
during the COVID-19 pandemic, this study sheds light on the
office workplace environment and aims to investigate how
organisations respond to forces from the external
environment (impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic) and how
they modify their office workplace management strategically
and operationally to suit the stakeholdersâ€™ needs and
future development in the post COVID-19 period.,A desktop
study was conducted to provide the framework for the
in-depth interviews with five corporate real estate (CRE)
managers and three workplace consultants. Thematic analysis
including coding technique was adopted to analyse the
qualitative data.,The findings show that during the
COVID-19 pandemic, most of the intended and implemented
office workplace modifications are mainly related to two
types of risk control: administrative control and personal
protection. At a strategic level, organisations react to
the external forces by re-modelling their businesses and
working towards re-orienting their CRE strategies, such as
portfolio transformation, agile portfolio strategies and
redesign of the office workplace, etc.,This is a topical
and timely study that presents the general practice of
office workplace modification during the COVID-19 pandemic,
as well as the related CRE management (CREM) strategies
developed for the new normal. The findings obtained through
in-depth interviews have well supported the CREM strategic
alignment theory. It is foreseen that office workplace
management will encounter other challenges due to
uncertainties of the COVID-19 pandemic. The findings of
this study provide a practical lens to look at the future
changes of office workplace environment.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_hou_study_2021.jpg)

