# Article: __The impact of COVID-19 on office space utilization and real-estate: a case study about teleworking in Israel as new normal__ (naor_impact_2022)

* [10.1108/JFM-12-2020-0096](https://doi.org/10.1108/JFM-12-2020-0096)


## Keywords



## Abstract

Purpose This study aims to investigate whether the shift
to teleworking during COVID-19 pandemic is going to
diminish the need to procure/rent extensive office space
and how this emerging trend impacts the real-estate market
in Israel.

Design/methodology/approach The methodologies used in this
study include triangulation of Google search engine, survey
and post hoc case study analysis.

Findings The analysis indicates a decline both in procuring
office space and its price per square meter. Employee
productivity while teleworking remains relatively high
despite home distractions. Interestingly, the survey
results forecast a continuous shift to hybrid work mode
after the pandemic.

Practical implications The study introduces the development
of numerous innovative Israeli technologies to allow a
gradual return to work in public places.

Social implications As the coronavirus outburst, business
sectors were forced by government regulations to change the
way of employment extensively, specifically, teleworking
has become an integral part of the routine to accommodate
social distance. The study provides insights into the
impact of teleworking on gender and ethnic diversity in the
Israeli workplace.

Originality/value Israel provides a unique bedrock for
investigation because of its status as a start-up nation
with both high skilled workforce and advanced information
technology infrastructure. The study enlightens an Israeli
perspective on how a small size country with a high-density
population succeeds to deal with coronavirus by teleworking
coupled with strict government enforcement of social
distance.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_naor_impact_2022.jpg)

