# Article: __Strategies to Mitigate COVID-19 Pandemic Impacts on Health and Safety of Workers in Construction Projects__ (kaushal_strategies_2021)

* [10.36937/cebel.2021.002.001](https://doi.org/10.36937/cebel.2021.002.001)
* Cluster: [construction-project](cluster_3)


## Keywords

[construction](keyword_construction), [pandemic](keyword_pandemic), [worker](keyword_worker), [coronavirus](keyword_coronavirus), [transportation](keyword_transportation)

## Abstract

Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a respiratory
illness caused by a virus called SARS-CoV-2. With the
global spread of COVID-19, there is a compelling need to
improve the health and safety of workers employed in the
construction projects (CP). Occupational characteristics,
such as interfacing with the public and being in close
quarters with other workers, not only put workers at high
risk for disease, but also make them a nexus of disease
transmission to the community. The objectives of this study
are: (1) to evaluate the implications of COVID-19 pandemic
on health and safety of workers in construction industry
(CI), (2) to analyze the socio-economic-environmental
impacts of the pandemic on construction, and (3) to
recommend effective ten-point strategy to reduce COVID-19
impacts on the health of construction workers in CP. The
required information is collected and analyzed based on the
recently published literature, interviews, surveys, and
industry experiences. The results reveal that hours of
work, wages, workload and stress levels, access to paid
leave, interactions with co-workers and supervisors, and
health-promoting workplaces have major impacts on the
well-being of workers, their families, and their
communities. This study will be helpful for the owners,
contractors, project managers and owners, and governmental
authorities in adopting the effective strategies to improve
the health and safety of workers as well as productivity
and efficiency in construction projects.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_kaushal_strategies_2021.jpg)

### References 

* [Antivirus-built environment: Lessons learned from
Covid-19 pandemic](article_megahed_antivirus-built_2020)

### Cited by 


