# Article: __COVID-19 Higher Mortality in Chinese Regions With Chronic Exposure to Lower Air Quality__ (pansini_covid-19_2021)

* [10.3389/fpubh.2020.597753](https://doi.org/10.3389/fpubh.2020.597753)
* Cluster: [air-sars](cluster_2)


## Keywords

* [air pollution](keyword_air_pollution), [covid-19](keyword_covid-19), [wuhan](keyword_wuhan), [china](keyword_china), [air pollutant](keyword_air_pollutant), [hubei](keyword_hubei), [mortality](keyword_mortality), [fatality](keyword_fatality), [province](keyword_province), [o3](keyword_o3), [pollutant](keyword_pollutant), [italy](keyword_italy), [pollution](keyword_pollution), [sar cov 2](keyword_sar_cov_2), [environ](keyword_environ)



## Keywords at large

* [biophilic design](keyword_biophilic_design), [architecture](keyword_architecture), [sustainable architecture](keyword_sustainable_architecture), [nature](keyword_nature), [design](keyword_design), [biophilic](keyword_biophilic), [environ](keyword_environ), [biophilia](keyword_biophilia), [wellbeing](keyword_wellbeing), [health](keyword_health)

## Abstract

We investigated the geographical character of the COVID-19
infection in China and correlated it with satellite- and
ground-based measurements of air quality. Controlling for
population density, we found more viral infections in those
prefectures (U.S. county equivalent) afflicted by high
Carbon Monoxide, Formaldehyde, PM 2.5, and Nitrogen Dioxide
values. Higher mortality was also correlated with
relatively poor air quality. When summarizing the results
at a greater administrative level, we found that the 10
provinces (U.S. state equivalent) with the highest rate of
mortality by COVID-19, were often the most polluted but not
the most densely populated. Air pollution appears to be a
risk factor for the incidence of this disease, despite the
conventionally apprehended influence of human mobility on
disease dynamics from the site of first appearance, Wuhan.
The raw correlations reported here should be interpreted in
a broader context, accounting for the growing evidence
reported by several other studies. These findings warn
communities and policymakers on the implications of
long-term air pollution exposure as an ecological,
multi-scale public health issue.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_pansini_covid-19_2021.jpg)

