# Article: __Understanding the role of urban design in disease spreading__ (brizuela_understanding_2019)

* [10.1101/766667](https://doi.org/10.1101/766667)
* Cluster: [health-city](cluster_0)


## Keywords

[city](keyword_city), [population](keyword_population), [disease](keyword_disease)

## Abstract

Cities are complex systems whose characteristics impact
the health of people who live in them. Nonetheless, urban
determinants of health often vary within spatial scales
smaller than the resolution of epidemiological datasets.
Thus, as cities expand and their inequalities grow, the
development of theoretical frameworks that explain health
at the neighborhood level is becoming increasingly
critical. To this end, we developed a methodology that uses
census data to introduce urban geography as a leading-order
predictor in the spread of influenza-like pathogens. Here,
we demonstrate our framework using neighborhood-level
census data for Guadalajara (GDL, Western Mexico). Our
simulations were calibrated using weekly hospitalization
data from the 2009 A/H1N1 influenza pandemic and show that
daily mobility patterns drive neighborhood-level variations
in the basic reproduction number R 0 , which in turn give
rise to robust spatiotemporal patterns in the spread of
disease. To generalize our results, we ran simulations in
hypothetical cities with the same population, area, schools
and businesses as GDL but different land use zoning. Our
results demonstrate that the agglomeration of daily
activities can largely influence the growth rate, size and
timing of urban epidemics. Overall, these findings support
the view that cities can be redesigned to limit the
geographic scope of influenza-like outbreaks and provide a
general mathematical framework to study the mechanisms by
which local and remote health consequences result from
characteristics of the physical environment.

Author summary Environmental, social and economic factors
give rise to health inequalities among the inhabitants of a
city, prompting researchers to propose ’smart’ urban
planning as a tool for public health. Here, we present a
mathematical framework that relates the spatial
distributions of schools and economic activities to the
spatiotemporal spread of influenza-like outbreaks. First,
we calibrated our model using city-wide data for
Guadalajara (GDL, Western Mexico) and found that a
person’s place of residence can largely influence their
role and vulnerability during an epidemic. In particular,
the higher contact rates of people living near major
activity hubs can give rise to predictable patterns in the
spread of disease. To test the universality of our
findings, we ’redesigned’ GDL by redistributing houses,
schools and businesses across the city and ran simulations
in the resulting geographies. Our results suggest that,
through its impact on the agglomeration of economic
activities, urban planning may be optimized to inhibit
epidemic growth. By predicting health inequalities at the
neighborhood-level, our methodology may help design public
health strategies that optimize resources and target those
who are most vulnerable. Moreover, it provides a
mathematical framework for the design and analysis of
experiments in urban health research.


## Concepts

 ![](imgs/article_brizuela_understanding_2019.jpg)

