# Blueprint: __Resilience in staffing and skills training__ (BP: 12)

## Closest articles 

* [Case Study on Finnish TVETA Resilient Model of
Training During COVID-19](article_unesco_case_2021)
* [Using Technology to Maintain the Education of Residents During the COVID-19 Pandemic](article_chick_using_2020)
* [Sustainable work throughout the life course: National
policies and strategies, Publications Office of the
European Union](article_eurofund_sustainable_2016)
* [Reframe how to serve your community in the midst of a pandemic](article_sutton_reframe_2020)
* [10 tech trends getting us through the COVID-19
pandemic](article_yan_10_2020)
* [It’s time to reimagine where and how work will get done
(PwC’s US Remote Work Survey)](article_pricewaterhousecoopers_its_2021)
* [Management of the COVID-19 pandemic: challenges, practices, and organizational support](article_hossny_management_2022)
* [A study on office workplace modification during the COVID-19 pandemic in The Netherlands](article_hou_study_2021)
* [Combating COVID-19—The role of robotics in managing public health and infectious diseases](article_yang_combating_2020)
* [Rotating groups at work, school best against COVID-19
spread: Study](article_afp_rotating_2021)



## Details of the blueprint

### Blueprint title

Resilience in staffing and skills training

### Idea description

Even before the recent outbreak of pandemics most of employers have had strategies and tools in place for its employees ensuring the gradual development of their skill set while keeping their well-being at acceptable levels. Recent pandemics have shown however that those strategies and tools were not resilient and flexible enough. Although employees had to find their own responses to the effects of pandemics, many of the organisations have started to look out for ways to improve their resilience across the organisation through improved staffing strategies and trainings.

### Why?

Holistic and resilient staffing strategies and employees’ training will give businesses and other employing entities effective and much more flexible strategies for adaptation during the times of (not only) epidemiological crisis. By improving their succession and transition plans and the and ability to replace the skills of one employee by one of the colleague’s will prove these organisations to be less prone to potential disruptions of their activities. Further, development of this measure will also ameliorate the engagement between employees at different levels of hierarchy and   throughout the whole organisation as well as make them more independent and knowledgeable of tools facilitating remote working

### Contextual situations

This measure is to be implemented across all businesses no matter their size or sector. In order to go along the definition of resilience relevant strategies and tools shall be deployed from the onset and continuously in order to be prepared for potential troubling events. Skills improvement can be done both virtually (through live or pre-recorded trainings or training apps and games) and in-person and should be done during continuously during the calmer periods

### Problems to solve

Having those strategies and tools in place employees will be less influenced during stressful, disruptive and uncommon events and therefore their working process would not be hindered as much. Moreover, better understanding the markets’ behaviour during the time of crisis will in turn help firms to organise their resources in an efficient manner.

### Value proposition

Both businesses and their workforce will be able to maintain a sustainable source of income. Besides, employees will have a chance to take advantage from a broad range of other socio-economic and psychological benefits and adapt to the new streams of working such as more frequent home-office.

### Capabilities

Nowadays digital and conventional training methods are largely available. More and more companies specialising in development of various skillsets. Moreover, massive open online course platforms such as Coursera are offering a plenitude of relevant coursers for free and can help build resilience in organisation with restricted budgets such as small enterprises, schools or NPOs.

### Restrictions and limitations

A number of limitations can hinder effective deployment of resilient strategies and associated trainings: •	People shaping those strategies might have insufficient background and can therefore make the strategies less effective. It is also important that those fit the needs of the entity in question.
•	Some of the trainings might be unavailable due to high demand or specificity of the topic
•	Smaller organisation might have budgetary and  time constraints that this measure imposes
•	With the plenitude of trainings available their quality can differ considerably. 
•	Switching to virtual space in terms of trainings leads to isolation of the workforce and can therefore hinder learning and growing.

### Transmission

Both

### Scale

GBN

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

To a smaller extent - Case study on finnish TVET: a resilient model of training during COVID-19 - UNESCO Digital Library

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical & behavioural

### Use of Digital Twin

nan

### Adverse costs

The biggest costs are related to the time and funding for the development of above-mentioned strategies and trainings. However, the investment will be negligible in comparison to the potential costs of response to and recovery from a crisis.



