# Blueprint: __Negative pressure rooms__ (BP: 13)

## Closest articles 

* [COVID-19 Forced Hospitals to Build Negative
Pressure Rooms Fast](article_dyer_covid-19_2020)
* [Rapid expansion of temporary, reliable airborne-infection isolation rooms with negative air machines for critical COVID-19 patients](article_lee_rapid_2020)
* [Real-world data show that filters clean COVID-causing virus from air](article_thompson_real-world_2021)
* [onway-morris_removal_2021](article_onway-morris_removal_2021)
* [Aerosol and Surface Distribution of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 in Hospital Wards, Wuhan, China, 2020](article_guo_aerosol_2020)
* [SARS-CoV-2 RNA detection of hospital isolation wards hygiene monitoring during the Coronavirus Disease 2019 outbreak in a Chinese hospital](article_wang_sars-cov-2_2020)
* [Air, Surface Environmental, and Personal Protective Equipment Contamination by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) From a Symptomatic Patient](article_ong_air_2020)
* [south_china_morning_post_china_2020](article_south_china_morning_post_china_2020)
* [China adapts survey drones to enforce world’s largest
quarantine](article_liu_china_2020)
* [SARS-CoV-2 Titers in Wastewater Are Higher than Expected from Clinically Confirmed Cases](article_wu_sars-cov-2_2020)



## Details of the blueprint

### Blueprint title

Negative pressure rooms

### Idea description

Negative pressure room is a delimited space within a building with the main purpose of keeping individual(s) with infectious diseases apart from others and limiting the cross-contamination in the building throughout a specific air ventilation mechanism. This mechanism uses an internal air pressure that is lower to the external allowing therefore the outside air to be continuously sucked in into the negative pressure room.  The contagious particles in the isolation compartment’s air are trapped and ventilated out through the same exhaust system that is creating the negative pressure in the room.  Majority of these exhaust systems comprise a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter filtering 99,9 % of particles in the air, others dilute the contagious particles with large amounts of clean air.

### Why?

As stated above, negative pressure rooms are one of the best ways to isolate an individual or a group that is either potentially or confirmed as infectious and contain any airborne contagious particles. Creating of negative pressure in the specific enclosed areas prevents cross-contamination of other areas of the building.

### Contextual situations

This measure is to be used across all building (but foremost hospitals) in scenarios where filtering of contagious particles out of the air is needed the most, i.e., during epidemics. 
It can be permanent in some instances and temporary in other. Depending on the need. Out of the pandemics, only few rooms might be needed per building. During pandemics multiple rooms can be created on temporary basis.

### Problems to solve

Apart from preventive limitation of air pressure in specific areas that have biggest potential for disease transmission (such as bathrooms or common areas), specifically designed rooms for isolation of contagious individuals will solve a major problem of what to do in first instances with someone who got confirmed as ill at the same time or was in critical contact with someone contagious.

### Value proposition

Negative air pressure rooms will allow isolation of contagious particles inside a room and therefore not threaten individuals outside the room. Organisation will be then able to have a better control over the potential spread of various diseases.

### Capabilities

Today, converting a an already existing HVAC system to a negative pressure can be done in a quick manner as it mostly needs revising the system controls by rewriting its code, and rebalancing the air distribution components and installation of HEPA-filters at specific points. It was also proven that a simple isolation room can be set-up within an hour in case of pressuring need[1] thanks to portable high efficiency airflow filters.

### Restrictions and limitations

Various limitations are also present for this particular measure: 
·  Negative pressure rooms protect greatly individuals who are outside the isolation rooms, however those who enter the room have no protection against contamination. It is therefore recommended to use Personal protective equipment (PPE) in case people with unconfirmed disease enter the room. To reassure that the disease is not spread from the PPE, an anteroom might be required where the change in normal clothes would happen. 
·  Some technical aspects of the process, such as the fact the room has to undergo 12 total room air changes every hour, need to be followed up closely. This also entails monitoring of temperature and humidity in the room as the increased air withdrawal can be uncomfortable for the users of the room.

### Transmission

Both

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

Many hospitals around the whole Globe feature negative pressure rooms, even more after the spread of COVID-19[1]

### Permanent

Permanent or temporary, depending on need.

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

Yes, a DT would be a great addition to this measure as continuous monitoring of pressure (as well as some other indicators) is crucial for its functioning. Relevant sensors and monitors should be placed in the isolation rooms. Moreover, in hospitals, an admission-discharge-transfer (ADT) feeds and notifications within electronic health records (EHRs) can be linked to HVAC system that would be able to create negative pressure in the room where the patient is stationed.

### Adverse costs

No major adverse cost – cost of such room is bearable and low-cost alternatives can be also developed.



