# Blueprint: __Reversible Building Design__ (BP: 14)

## Closest articles 

* [Biophilic design in architecture and its contributions to health, well-being, and sustainability: A critical review](article_zhong_biophilic_2022)
* [Navigating Climate Change: Rethinking the Role of Buildings](article_cole_navigating_2020)
* [COVID-19 Lessons for a Resilient Built
Environment: A Roadmap](article_hull_covid-19_2020)
* [Will a pandemic change building codes?](article_rozgus_will_2020)
* [COVID-19 Experience Transforming the Protective Environment of Office Buildings and Spaces](article_phapant_covid-19_2021)
* [A study on office workplace modification during the COVID-19 pandemic in The Netherlands](article_hou_study_2021)
* [The COVID-19 Impact on Flexible Office Space](article_clifton_covid-19_2020)
* [How will COVID-19 change future building regulations?](article_hmc_architects_how_2020)
* [Architectural Design Drives the Biogeography of Indoor Bacterial Communities](article_kembel_architectural_2014)
* [It’s time to reimagine where and how work will get done
(PwC’s US Remote Work Survey)](article_pricewaterhousecoopers_its_2021)



## Details of the blueprint

### Blueprint title

Reversible Building Design

### Idea description

The  idea of designing a building in a way that is reversible is to allow it to embody several fonctions and therefore several designs throughout its lifecycle.Indeed, with this process buildings will be able to be decontructed instead of demolished. The once assembled parts of the building will be reused for a new purpose.

### Why?

The purpose of such a solution is to ensure the flexibility of the design through change of circumstances and constraints.Moreover, this will also provide a positive environmental impact by reducing the waste caused by demolition.

### Contextual situations

This solution can be used in all buildings in scenarios where we will need to change the function and possibly the design of the construction.

### Problems to solve

The main challenge when it comes to this solution though is its implementation. What is the process to deconstruct a building while preserving its elements ? What resources will  it required  ? How long will  it take ?

### Value proposition

The major advantage of this solution is its innovation. Indeed, before in order to modify a building we had to destroy the part that needed to be changed in most cases. Then, the destroyed could have been reused in order to create a new element but here the scale of recycled element is forever changed, making it quicker to address a new building design.

### Capabilities

A reversible building design will allow the building design to be modified in case of a new pandemic. Indeed, such epidemy as the COVID 19 showed us that the  current building design are not necessarily optimised for isolation or at least proper measures needed in these types of conditions.

### Restrictions and limitations

The restrictions and limitations of this solution also comes from its innovative aspect. Although, being a great way to build and deconstruct, it still is new and  not everyone is yet familiar to it. The challenge is for its new users to be able to discover it and use it in the most optimised way when it comes to time management, costs, waste management and human ressources.

### Transmission

Direct & Indirect

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Design & Dismantling

### Demonstrated

-

### Permanent

Only to used when needed

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

A Digital Twin can be used to assess the new design thought for the initial building.

### Adverse costs

The measure can bring beneficial environmental effects and help reducing the financial costs when it compared to a usual demolishing and building process.



