# Blueprint: __Good hand hygiene practice__ (BP: 16)

## Closest articles 

* [KIX to apply antimicrobial coating in its fight against
COVID-19](article_kansai_airport_kix_2021)
* [Touchless Retail: What the Rest of the World could
learn from China’s new ways to shop](article_capgemini_touchless_2020)
* [Scalable IoT Architecture for Monitoring IEQ Conditions in Public and Private Buildings](article_calvo_scalable_2022)
* [Retail Signage During the COVID-19 Pandemic](article_mcneish_retail_2020)
* [An Intelligent IEQ Monitoring and Feedback System: Development and Applications](article_geng_intelligent_2021)
* [Emerging from Lockdown: CIBSE COVID-19 Guidance](article_cibse_emerging_2020)
* [cibse_emerging_202](article_cibse_emerging_202)
* [Graphene-based nanomaterials as antimicrobial surface coatings: A parallel approach to restrain the expansion of COVID-19](article_ayub_graphene-based_2021)
* [A comprehensive review on indoor air quality monitoring systems for enhanced public health](article_saini_comprehensive_2020)
* [Continuous IEQ monitoring system: Context and development](article_parkinson_continuous_2019)



## Details of the blueprint

### Blueprint title

Good hand hygiene practice

### Idea description

High levels of hand hygiene are a well-known and proven measure to prevent the transmission of diseases and is widely used as a strategy to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The blueprint idea is to make sure all users of the building keep the basic requirement of maintaining a good hand hygiene to decrease the transmission of disease between building users. The hand hygiene could be increased or kept high by a different range of measures focusing on either practical measure providing access to hand washing or hand sanitizers or to information reminding the users apply the measures or instructing them on how-to.

### Why?

Good hand hygiene practice has for long been fundamental to patient safety at hospitals and in general in the health care system. By consistently washing and sanitizing our hands we prevent the spread of infections though hand contact.

### Contextual situations

Hand sanitizer should be available in all relevant locations in the building. This could be at entry points to the building/area/populated room, at entrance- and exit points to stairwells, canteen areas, at high use surfaces such as coffee- and vending machines etc.  
Information and instruction to the users such as signs at restrooms showing good hand hygiene practice, reminders of using hand sanitizer at strategic locations etc.

### Problems to solve

Reducing transmission of disease through direct hand contact between users or disease transmission through surfaces.

### Value proposition

Implementing measures in order to secure high hand hygiene is a low-tech measure to reduce pandemic risks, but with a potential good effect. 
The measures are easy to implement and easy to withdraw again, giving them a short response time and a high flexibility, also in terms of later relocation in the building.
The implementation and operation cost are relatively low compared to more high-tech and comprehensive measures.

### Capabilities

To implement this measure effectively it is important to assess the primary user group of the building. The measures would be expressed very differently in a kindergarten in comparison with a university campus and it is therefore important to evaluate this, so the information and active measures are aimed at the present user group to obtain the most effect. 
Hand hygiene can be monitored directly through observations or self-reporting from users or indirectly though monitoring of consumption of sanitizer products (soap and hand rubs).

### Restrictions and limitations

Changing user behaviour can be challenging, but when a positive behaviour is first implemented it is easier to maintain it. During the COVID19 pandemic,  there were periodically shortages on hand sanitizer products due to rapidly increasing demands.

### Transmission

Direct

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

The practice and efficiency were widely demonstrated through the Covid-19 pandemic.

### Permanent

Behavioural – not permanent.

### Technical or behavioural

Behavioural

### Use of Digital Twin

No obvious application of a DT is immediately apparent for the current measure.

### Adverse costs

Frequent use of soap or hand sanitizers can lead to dry and irritated skin.



