# Blueprint: __Reducing contact points__ (BP: 17)

## Closest articles 

* [KIX to apply antimicrobial coating in its fight against
COVID-19](article_kansai_airport_kix_2021)
* [Scalable IoT Architecture for Monitoring IEQ Conditions in Public and Private Buildings](article_calvo_scalable_2022)
* [Graphene-based nanomaterials as antimicrobial surface coatings: A parallel approach to restrain the expansion of COVID-19](article_ayub_graphene-based_2021)
* [An Intelligent IEQ Monitoring and Feedback System: Development and Applications](article_geng_intelligent_2021)
* [Touchless Retail: What the Rest of the World could
learn from China’s new ways to shop](article_capgemini_touchless_2020)
* [A comprehensive review on indoor air quality monitoring systems for enhanced public health](article_saini_comprehensive_2020)
* [Continuous IEQ monitoring system: Context and development](article_parkinson_continuous_2019)
* [Emerging from Lockdown: CIBSE COVID-19 Guidance](article_cibse_emerging_2020)
* [cibse_emerging_202](article_cibse_emerging_202)
* [Sars-CoV-2 (COVID-19) inactivation capability of copper-coated touch surface fabricated by cold-spray technology](article_hutasoit_sars-cov-2_2020)



## Details of the blueprint

### Blueprint title

Reducing contact points

### Idea description

Reducing the amount of physical contact points in the building where disease can spread, such as surfaces, railings, fixtures, doorknobs etc., so the users of the building are help into avoiding touching as many of the same surfaces as possible. This can be done through a long range of measures such as; 
Installing hands-free or foot operated door openers on common doors. 
Updating/retrofitting commonly used appliances such as coffee-machines, vending machines, water taps, to a touch free version
Encouraging users to avoid touching surfaces 
Installing motion-detection lighting, reducing touching for example of light switches.

### Why?

Contact points in the building such as handrails, doorhandles, buttons etc. Are a source of transmission for disease amongst users of the building. Reducing the number of contact points and especially high-traffic contact points, will reduce the risk of disease spreading.

### Contextual situations

Applying contactless measures at High traffic contact points in the building. This could be door-knobs to restrooms or doorknobs in central locations with high activity or widely used appliances in key locations.

### Problems to solve

Disease spreading amongst users in the building through transmission via physical contact points and surfaces.

### Value proposition

Many of the measures reducing contact points are low-tech and low-cost measures, which could be implemented in existing buildings as well as new-build.

### Capabilities

Since these measures are already widely applied in different context, there is a wide access to various products on market accommodating the needs.

### Restrictions and limitations

-

### Transmission

Indirect

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

A wide range of contact free measures are today available an widely applicated, but often with a different focus than pandemic adaptation. Sensor control of lighting and doors is for example frequently applied in buildings.

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

No obvious direct application of a DT is immediate apparent for the current measure. But the data from sensors etc. could be applied indirectly to accommodate data needed for other purposes (ie. Sensors data of doors could be related to occupancy)

### Adverse costs

Sensor control of non-energy consuming functions such as door openings, would though lead to a minor increase in energy consumption. On the other hand, sensor control of lighting would lead to a decrease in energy consumption.



