# Blueprint: __Rotating groups at work, school best against COVID-19 spread: Study__ (BP_10)


## Details

* Cluster: __processing-wireless__ ([Cluster_1](cluster_1))



## Description


### Blueprint title

Installing UV in ductwork

### Idea description

Airborne transmission is one of the main routes by which diseases spread. Normally, the concentration of microorganisms/viruses in enclosed spaces is controlled by natural or mechanical ventilation systems. In this context, it should be noted that ventilation systems are designed for the comfort of the users, so in some scenarios (e.g. pandemic) the recommended air change per hour for controlling airborne infections cannot be achieved. UV-C can effectively supplement ventilation and inactivate harmful sources of disease before air flows reach occupied spaces.

### Why?

UV-C irradiation is an 80-year-old technology that has been successfully used to reduce the spread of microorganisms safely, quietly, effectively and economically. UV-C for germicidal spread control works primarily by damaging nucleic acids (DNA & RNA) that are ubiquitous in pathogenic microbes. Effectiveness against current and future protozoa, fungi, bacteria and viruses is therefore guaranteed, provided the light dose is appropriate.

### Contextual situations

UV-C lamps are used in unoccupied spaces (either in ducts or in a room) to purify air streams that enter occupied spaces (e.g., health care facilities, offices, schools, public buildings, etc.)

### Problems to solve

Since infectious diseases are often airborne, HVAC systems can have a major impact on the transmission of disease from one place to another. Installing UV-C light in ventilation ducts allows microorganisms to be inactivated without seriously affecting the operation of HVAC systems.

### Value proposition

UV-C light sources can kill viruses and other microorganisms, allowing air to circulate in a building without major changes to existing facilities, creating a safe indoor environment for occupants.

### Capabilities

The correct adjustment of the UV-C radiation variables (intensity, wavelength and duration of irradiation) significantly changes the performance of the system. Therefore, the system can be adjusted to reduce the presence of certain microorganisms as needed.
According to existing literature, it is possible to inactivate 90-99.9% of microorganisms (including the SARS-CoV virus) by installing UV-C lamps.
UV-C irradiation is very flexible and depends on the strategy for controlling microorganisms. Various analogue systems can be found on the market: In-channel systems, upper room decontamination systems and mobile systems on rollers.

### Restrictions and limitations

UVC can attack certain materials, particularly plastics used in ventilation systems, so a shielding solution may be required.
For maintenance personnel, UV-C radiation can be harmful to eyes and skin.

### Transmission

Indirect

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Design & Construction

### Demonstrated

Chicago’s Loyola University Medical Center

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

nan

### Adverse costs

nan

### Associated interventions
```
Main: PA7 - Disinfection of air
Other: 
> PA1 - Use of smart/innovative air quality controls technology
> PA3 - Air filtration
> PA4 - Monitor and control indoor air quality
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: UV/UVGI/Irradation
Other: 
> Data Analytics
> Air sensors 
> Smart HVAC
```
### PartnerInCharge

COD



## Mapping 

 ### Interventions

* Use of smart/innovative air quality controls technology (PA1)
* Monitor and control indoor air quality (PA4)
* Air filtration (PA3)
* Disinfection of air (PA7)

### Technologies

* Data Analytics
* Air Sensors




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* Behind the Update: ASHRAE Handbook Chapters on UV-C to Include Updated Best Practices, Guidance - [LINK](article_ashrae_behind_2020)
* Case Study: Using Germicidal UV-C to Mitigate COVID-19 - HVAC - [LINK](article_healthcare_facilities_today_case_2021)
* Applications of ultraviolet germicidal irradiation disinfection in health care facilities: Effective adjunct, but not stand-alone technology - [LINK](article_memarzadeh_applications_2010)
* Upper-Room Ultraviolet Light and Negative Air Ionization to Prevent Tuberculosis Transmission - [LINK](article_escombe_upper-room_2009)
* Upper-room ultraviolet air disinfection might help to reduce COVID-19 transmission in buildings: a feasibility study - [LINK](article_beggs_upper-room_2020)
* Effect of Ultraviolet Germicidal Irradiation on Viral Aerosols - [LINK](article_walker_effect_2007)
* Air Disinfection for Airborne Infection Control with a Focus on COVID‐19: Why Germicidal UV is Essential             <sup>†</sup> - [LINK](article_nardell_air_2021)
* Far-UVC light (222 nm) efficiently and safely inactivates airborne human coronaviruses - [LINK](article_buonanno_far-uvc_2020)
* Efficacy of an Automated Multiple Emitter Whole-Room Ultraviolet-C Disinfection System Against Coronaviruses MHV and MERS-CoV - [LINK](article_bedell_efficacy_2016)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Negative pressure rooms - [LINK](bp_13)
* Blueprint: Resilience in staffing and skills training - [LINK](bp_12)
* Blueprint: Smart Locker System - [LINK](bp_1)
