

## Details

* Cluster: __ontology-datum__ ([Cluster_2](cluster_2))



## Description


### Blueprint title

Monitoring of wastewater

### Idea description

Already a year ago, the European Commission recommended that EU member states set up a wastewater monitoring programme to track COVID-19 and its variants. As a result, some 1 370 wastewater treatment plants in the EU are now regularly monitored. This draft aims to transfer this practise to the neighbourhood level. Monitoring of wastewater has proven to be a reliable source of information to detect the presence of the virus or the increase or decrease in levels of virus without needing to test individual people. In this context, the following concept proposes to equip relevant wastewater sites with digital tools and sensors to collect regular data on pathogen concentrations for guidelines and policy decisions.

### Why?

Past experience with other viral diseases, such as polio, hepatitis A and norovirus, has shown that effluent-based epidemiology is an effective tool to detect the presence of pathogens and provide a clear indication of increasing or decreasing transmission. In addition, continuous monitoring of wastewater enables early detection of viral mutations/variants that allow precautionary measures to be taken. On the other hand, the good correlation between the number of COVID-19 cases and the concentration of pathogens measured in some EU wastewater treatment plants shows that this approach is effective in providing actionable data on the outbreaks of pandemics.

### Contextual situations

This measure is effective as long as the residential area is in operation

### Problems to solve

The water in the sewage system serves as an early warning system for the outbreak of a disease in the urban population. 
Surveillance and monitoring of pathogens in wastewater complements current infectious disease surveillance systems and serves as an early warning system for disease outbreaks.

### Value proposition

In general terms, this blueprint provides a cheap, rapid and robust tool of tracking diseases that does not rely on testing individual people. The ability of this measure to rapidly monitor the spread of disease is key for prevention, intervention and control.

### Capabilities

For this measure to be most useful, it is important to select a broad panel of markers that provide information on (i) pathogenic organisms (bacteria and viruses), (ii) biochemical markers associated with physiological responses, (iii) markers for intervention (drugs) and (iv) markers for antimicrobial resistance.

### Restrictions and limitations

Although no data is collected on specific individuals, several ethical aspects of this measure can be discussed. It is generally accepted that a population size of more than > 10,000 is sufficient to ensure anonymity and not pose a risk. This number is far from the number of people who might live in a neighbourhood. As a result, some people might be stigmatised by the measure. On the other hand, a smaller number of people may also have an impact on the sensitivity of the system (lower concentrations of pathogens).

### Transmission

None

### Scale

GBN

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

(i)https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7245320/
(ii)https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.estlett.0c00357
(iii)https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7566278/

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

Yes

### Adverse costs

High cost of equipment
Need for regular system maintenance on site

### Associated interventions
```
Main: MP3 - Early detection
Other: 
> MP1 - Infection tracking / monitoring
> MP2 - Quarantine support
> PW2 - Maintenance / decontamination of building water sytems
> PW4 - Greywater management
> MC1 - Minimize supply chain disruptions
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: Automation
Other: 
> Water sensors
> 5G
> IoT
```
### PartnerInCharge

CID



## Mapping 

 ### Interventions

* Infection tracking / monitoring ([MP1](mp1))
* Quarantine support ([MP2](mp2))
* Minimize supply chain disruptions ([MC1](mc1))
* Maintenance / decontamination of building water sytems ([PW2](pw2))
* Early detection ([MP3](mp3))
* Greywater management ([PW4](pw4))
* Infection tracking / monitoring ([MP1](mp1))
* Quarantine support ([MP2](mp2))
* Minimize supply chain disruptions ([MC1](mc1))
* Maintenance / decontamination of building water sytems ([PW2](pw2))
* Early detection ([MP3](mp3))
* Greywater management ([PW4](pw4))

### Technologies

* Water sensors
* 5G
* IoT




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* How Can Blockchain Help People in the Event of Pandemics Such as the COVID-19? - [LINK](article_chang_how_2020)
* Blockchain technology and its applications to combat COVID-19 pandemic - [LINK](article_sharma_blockchain_2022)
* Urban Green Infrastructure and Green Open Spaces: An Issue of Social Fairness in Times of COVID-19 Crisis - [LINK](article_reinwald_urban_2021)
* Urban nature in a time of crisis: recreational use of green space increases during the COVID-19 outbreak in Oslo, Norway - [LINK](article_venter_urban_2020)
* Governance of Urban Green Spaces across Latin America - Insights from Semi-Structured Interviews to Managers Amid COVID-19 - [LINK](article_sainz-santamaria_governance_2021)
* Green infrastructure through the lens of “One Health”: A systematic review and integrative framework uncovering synergies and trade-offs between mental health and wildlife support in cities - [LINK](article_felappi_green_2020)
* Health Information Exchange with Blockchain amid Covid-19-like Pandemics - [LINK](article_christodoulou_health_2020)
* Urban Park Use During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Are Socially Vulnerable Communities Disproportionately Impacted? - [LINK](article_larson_urban_2021)
* Urban form: Realising the value of green space: a planners’ perspective on the COVID-19 pandemic - [LINK](article_ahmadpoor_urban_2021)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Tracking and enforcing use of Personal Protective Equipment - [LINK](bp_19)
* Blueprint: Animal vectors control - [LINK](bp_18)
* Blueprint: Resilience in staffing and skills training - [LINK](bp_12)
