# Blueprint: __Good hand hygiene practice__ (BP_16)


## Details

* Cluster: __Cluster_10__ (Cluster_10)



## Description

### Blueprint title

Good hand hygiene practice

### Idea description

A high level of hand hygiene is a well-known and proven measure to prevent the transmission of diseases. It was and is a widely used strategy to prevent the spread of COVID -19. This blueprint serves as a reminder of this modern measure to ensure that all building occupants adhere to the basic requirement of good hand hygiene to reduce the transmission of disease between building occupants. Discipline in hand hygiene can be increased or maintained through a variety of measures, focusing either on practical measures that provide access to hand washing or disinfecting products, or on information that reminds or guides occupants to use the measures.

### Why?

Good hand hygiene practice has for long been fundamental to patient safety at hospitals and in general in the health care system. By consistently washing and sanitizing our hands we prevent the spread of infections though hand contact.

### Contextual situations

Hand sanitizers should be available at all key points in the building. This could be at the entrances to the building/premises/populated space, at the entrances and exits of stairwells, in canteen areas, at high use areas such as coffee and vending machines, etc 
Information and instructions for users, e.g. signs at toilets indicating good hand hygiene, reminders to use hand sanitizers at strategic locations, etc.

### Problems to solve

The objective of this blueprint is to reduce the transmission of disease through direct hand contact between users or disease transmission through surfaces.

### Value proposition

Implementing measures to ensure high hand hygiene is a low-tech measure to reduce pandemic risks, but with a potentially good impact 
These measures are easy to implement and easy to withdraw, which gives them a short response time and high flexibility, also with regard to later relocation in the building.
Implementation and operating costs are relatively low compared to more technically complex and comprehensive measures.

### Capabilities

In order to implement this measure effectively, it is important to assess the primary user group(s) of the building and the impact of their characteristics on the measures to be implemented. For example, the measures would be expressed very differently in a kindergarten than on a university campus. Therefore, it is important to assess this so that the information and active measures are targeted to the current user group to achieve the greatest impact 
Hand hygiene can be monitored directly through user observation or self-reporting, or indirectly by monitoring the consumption of disinfectants (soap and hand cream).

### Restrictions and limitations

Changing user behaviour can be challenging, but once a positive behaviour is established, it is easier to maintain. During the COVID19 pandemic, shortages of hand sanitizers occurred regularly due to rapidly increasing demand.

### Transmission

Direct

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

The practice and efficiency were widely demonstrated through the Covid-19 pandemic.

### Permanent

Behavioural – not permanent.

### Technical or behavioural

Behavioural

### Use of Digital Twin

No obvious application of a DT is immediately apparent for the current measure.

### Adverse costs

Frequent use of soap or hand sanitizers can lead to dry and irritated skin.

### Associated interventions

Main: HU2 - Personal hygiene (eg handwashing)
Other: 
> U3 - Staff training / upskilling
> MI3 -Raising awareness

### Technological enablers

Main: Telemedicine 
Other: 
> Water sensors
> SmartPhones
> Social Networks
> Digital signagne

### PartnerInCharge

COWI





## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* KIX to apply antimicrobial coating in its fight against COVID-19 - [LINK](article_kansai_airport_kix_2021)
* Touchless Retail: What the Rest of the World could learn from China’s new ways to shop - [LINK](article_capgemini_touchless_2020)
* Graphene-based nanomaterials as antimicrobial surface coatings: A parallel approach to restrain the expansion of COVID-19 - [LINK](article_ayub_graphene-based_2021)
* Retail Signage During the COVID-19 Pandemic - [LINK](article_mcneish_retail_2020)
* Sars-CoV-2 (COVID-19) inactivation capability of copper-coated touch surface fabricated by cold-spray technology - [LINK](article_hutasoit_sars-cov-2_2020)
* A Surface Coating that Rapidly Inactivates SARS-CoV-2 - [LINK](article_behzadinasab_surface_2020)
* Real-world data show that filters clean COVID-causing virus from air - [LINK](article_thompson_real-world_2021)
* A comprehensive review on indoor air quality monitoring systems for enhanced public health - [LINK](article_saini_comprehensive_2020)
* How COVID-19 Could Accelerate the Adoption of New Retail Technologies and Enhance the (E-)Servicescape - [LINK](article_willems_how_2021)
* A Continuously Active Antimicrobial Coating effective against Human Coronavirus 229E - [LINK](article_ikner_continuously_2020)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Reducing contact points - [LINK](bp_17)
* Blueprint: Antimicrobial Surfaces - [LINK](bp_5)
* Blueprint: Checkpoint allocation for access limitation - [LINK](bp_6)
