

## Details

* Cluster: __ontology-datum__ ([Cluster_2](cluster_2))



## Description


### Blueprint title

Animal vectors control

### Idea description

Animal vector control methods and technologies are central to preventing the transmission of vector-borne diseases from animals to occupants (zoonosis) and users of buildings and/or GBNs. More traditional methods of controlling animal vectors in buildings include large-scale use of pesticides and insecticides. However, there is a trend toward less toxic measures in EU countries. As a result, several countries have adopted more complex pest management strategies that include multiple non-chemical approaches. Integrated Pest Management (IPM), for example, as the title suggests, is a program that uses more than one technique at four levels of implementation:
1) Identification of the types of pests that occur in a given area in order to target preventive measures (see below). In addition, this level includes routine monitoring of the most infested areas and an analysis of the effectiveness of the measures applied 
2) Establishment of thresholds for the implementation of certain measures to allow informed decision making.
3) Prevention
4) Apply the lowest risk pest control methods such as trapping, eradication, or local application of pesticides and insecticides when non-toxic methods have not provided the success established by the thresholds

### Why?

In areas endemic for mosquito-borne diseases (e.g. dengue, malaria, West Nile Virus), care should be taken to reduce exposure to mosquitoes and eliminate their breeding grounds within the infrastructure setting. Climate change will expand the territory of disease-carrying mosquitoes further north, meaning that in future decades malaria may be a threat in southern Europe. Moreover, COVID-19 was the most recent example of a zoonotic disease that has spread worldwide, but other diseases such as Zika virus, dengue fever, and SARS are also among the epidemics. According to 2016 UNEP estimates, about 75% of emerging infectious diseases originate in animals. In addition, numerous studies confirm the hypothesis that animals that choose the urban environment as their natural habitat, particularly rodents, insects and birds, carry significantly greater amounts of pathogens than animals in other habitats.

### Contextual situations

This measure is to be applied in all buildings across the GBNs, however as commonly know some categories of buildings or specific areas within buildings (such as storage areas, poor quality housing or eating areas) are more prone to the presence of animal vectors
Examples of control, for mosquitoes, would include: 
•Screens on operable windows 
•Air curtains at outside doors (where appropriate - may not be cost or energy efficient in most situations)
•Preventing accumulation of standing water (e.g. containers that can collect rainwater, blocked gutters)
Furthermore, rodents such as mice and rats can transmit diseases such as hantaviruses. Preventing rodent infestation of a building mostly involves keeping it clean, including: 
•Removal of potential nesting materials (e.g. shredded paper, dried plant matter) 
•Keeping rubbish (especially food waste) in bins with tight-fitting lids 
•Storing food in thick plastic or metal containers with tight lids 
•Sealing gaps or holes in exterior walls

### Problems to solve

Continous animal vector control will prevent infestations and therefore lower the risk of disease spread and other health hazards such as serious allergic reactions or asthma attacks. Furthermore, the risk of property damage will be much lower.

### Value proposition

Implementing IMP or other integrating measure that opt for rather non-toxic and innovatiove solution will not only reduce the risk os disease spread between the users of the buildings but it will also lead to a more sustainable and enviromental-friendly change. Pest-control will also lead to a major cost saving as even small infestations can lead to great amounts of investments.

### Capabilities

A robust and comprehensive animal vector control management plan is quintesential as well as education of the buildings' users and technical staff, including professionals in pest prevention and control.

### Restrictions and limitations

The main restriction for effective animal vector prevention and control lies in the inability or even absence of  knowledge sharing above the trained proefessionals as well as missing expertise in relation to the non-traditional methods still widely used in many of the EU countries. Moreover, innovation in this specific sector cannot be deemed as rapid and not many alternatives to the conventional ways are present currently.

### Transmission

Direct contact & Fomite

### Scale

GBN

### Phase

Design & Operational

### Demonstrated

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6964823/
https://food.ec.europa.eu/plants/pesticides/sustainable-use-pesticides/integrated-pest-management-ipm_en
https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/2015-11/documents/ipm_in_buildings.pdf

### Permanent

Permanent & Temporary

### Technical or behavioural

Technical & Behavioural

### Use of Digital Twin

Potentially - https://www.rentokil.com/services/pest-control-services/digital-pest-control

### Adverse costs

Training might be costly & use of toxic pesticides and insecticides

### Associated interventions
```
Main:  PS5 - Animal vectors control
Other: 
> MI3 - Raising awareness
> PS3 - Wall and floors treatment
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: Image acquisition & CCTV
Other: 
> Data Analytics
> Smartphones
> Robots, Drones & Automated Vehicules
```
### PartnerInCharge

MM



## Mapping 

 ### Interventions

* Raising awareness ([MI3](mi3))
* Wall and floors treatment ([PS3](ps3))
* Animal vectors control ([PS5](ps5))
* Raising awareness ([MI3](mi3))
* Wall and floors treatment ([PS3](ps3))
* Animal vectors control ([PS5](ps5))

### Technologies

* Data Analytics
* GPS
* 5G




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* How Can Blockchain Help People in the Event of Pandemics Such as the COVID-19? - [LINK](article_chang_how_2020)
* Blockchain technology and its applications to combat COVID-19 pandemic - [LINK](article_sharma_blockchain_2022)
* Urban Green Infrastructure and Green Open Spaces: An Issue of Social Fairness in Times of COVID-19 Crisis - [LINK](article_reinwald_urban_2021)
* Urban nature in a time of crisis: recreational use of green space increases during the COVID-19 outbreak in Oslo, Norway - [LINK](article_venter_urban_2020)
* Governance of Urban Green Spaces across Latin America - Insights from Semi-Structured Interviews to Managers Amid COVID-19 - [LINK](article_sainz-santamaria_governance_2021)
* Green infrastructure through the lens of “One Health”: A systematic review and integrative framework uncovering synergies and trade-offs between mental health and wildlife support in cities - [LINK](article_felappi_green_2020)
* Health Information Exchange with Blockchain amid Covid-19-like Pandemics - [LINK](article_christodoulou_health_2020)
* Urban Park Use During the COVID-19 Pandemic: Are Socially Vulnerable Communities Disproportionately Impacted? - [LINK](article_larson_urban_2021)
* Urban form: Realising the value of green space: a planners’ perspective on the COVID-19 pandemic - [LINK](article_ahmadpoor_urban_2021)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Tracking and enforcing use of Personal Protective Equipment - [LINK](bp_19)
* Blueprint: Monitoring of wastewater - [LINK](bp_17)
* Blueprint: Resilience in staffing and skills training - [LINK](bp_12)
