# Blueprint: __Installing high-efficiency air filters__ (BP_11)


## Details

* Cluster: __Cluster_0__ (Cluster_0)



## Description

### Blueprint title

Installing high-efficiency air filters

### Idea description

The Covid has made us aware that the air contains a large number of pollutants, viruses and bacteria that affect the development of human life. In this context, air philtres play an important role in our daily life. This draft proposes the use of highly effective filters as a means of decontaminating SARS-CoV-2 aerosols in public and enclosed spaces to protect not only from the Covid but also from other infectious agents.

### Why?

It is known that air filters reduce the presence of virus particles in the air. In this sense, there are already a number of studies confirming that they are able to remove SARS-CoV-2 particles from the air. Recent experiments have shown that highly efficient particle filters can capture extremely small particles, including the covid virus. It is also a cheap and easy way to reduce the risk from airborne pathogens.

### Contextual situations

This measure would be applied in closed and busy areas such as offices (during working hours) or certain public buildings.

### Problems to solve

it has been confirmed that SARS-CoV-2 is airborne. Because high-efficiency filtres can trap small particles, this measure reduces the risk of covid spread and prevents other viruses from attaching to surfaces.

### Value proposition

In general terms, this design provides the following 
-	Reduces the risk of viruses spreading indoors
-	Improves air quality

### Capabilities

For this measure to be effective, regular maintenance must be carried out in addition to knowledge of the existing filtrating technology.

### Restrictions and limitations

The limitations of this proposal include that the philtre loses efficiency due to its clogging. As a result, the air supply would decrease, leading to stagnant air. Regular maintenance would avoid this risk.

### Transmission

Direct

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Design & Construction

### Demonstrated

Addenbrooke’s Hospital (Cambridge, UK)

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

nan

### Adverse costs

Requires periodic staff attendance on site

### Associated interventions
```
Main: PA3 - Air filtration
Other: 
> PA1 - Use of smart/innovative air quality controls technology
> PA4 - Monitor and control indoor air quality
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: Smart HVAC
Other: 
>Automation
> Air sensors 
> HEPA filters
```
### PartnerInCharge

COD


### Interventions

* Use of smart/innovative air quality controls technology (PA1)
* Monitor and control indoor air quality (PA4)
* Air filtration (PA3)

### Technologies

* Air Sensors
* Data Analytics




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* Touchless Retail: What the Rest of the World could learn from China’s new ways to shop - [LINK](article_capgemini_touchless_2020)
* Retail Signage During the COVID-19 Pandemic - [LINK](article_mcneish_retail_2020)
* How COVID-19 Could Accelerate the Adoption of New Retail Technologies and Enhance the (E-)Servicescape - [LINK](article_willems_how_2021)
* Future perspectives of wastewater-based epidemiology: Monitoring infectious disease spread and resistance to the community level - [LINK](article_sims_future_2020)
* Presence of SARS-Coronavirus-2 RNA in Sewage and Correlation with Reported COVID-19 Prevalence in the Early Stage of the Epidemic in The Netherlands - [LINK](article_medema_presence_2020)
* Computational analysis of SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 surveillance by wastewater-based epidemiology locally and globally: Feasibility, economy, opportunities and challenges - [LINK](article_hart_computational_2020)
* Wastewater surveillance for population-wide Covid-19: The present and future - [LINK](article_daughton_wastewater_2020)
* First detection of SARS-CoV-2 in untreated wastewaters in Italy - [LINK](article_la_rosa_first_2020)
* SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater: potential health risk, but also data source - [LINK](article_lodder_sars-cov-2_2020)
* SARS-CoV-2 Titers in Wastewater Are Higher than Expected from Clinically Confirmed Cases - [LINK](article_wu_sars-cov-2_2020)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Smart Locker System - [LINK](bp_1)
* Blueprint: One-way mobility circulation - [LINK](bp_4)
* Blueprint: Rotational Shift System - [LINK](bp_0)
