# Blueprint: __Air Cleaning Plants__ (BP_15)


## Details

* Cluster: __Cluster_2__ (Cluster_2)



## Description

### Blueprint title

Air Cleaning Plants

### Idea description

Many households and smaller businesses can perceive conventional methods of air purification as cost-heavy, mainly due to the complexity of different filtration or radiation systems. Moreover, their operability can be too complex for most users. On the other hand, including air cleaning plants in the buildings’ environment can be seen as an alternative method for air purification and bio-decontamination in indoor premises. Moreover, including biophilic components into the buildings’ design will also promote the general well-being of the users of the physical space. Some studies have even shown that these features provide for a faster recovery of patients in hospitals.

### Why?

Including air cleaning plants is seen as a very cost-effective, energy-efficient, and environmentally friendly method for air purification in confined spaces as well as for the general promotion of healthy functioning by absorbing a large number of pollutants and airborne microbes. Numerous studies have shown that air purification and bio-decontamination are essential for slowing down the potential transmission of most diseases.

### Contextual situations

Vertical gardening has become very popular in the late years due to its numerous rewards and has become a great method how to add aesthetic value to those areas that are considered empty. Specific areas that are meeting most of the preconditions for the plants to strive are needed to be selected as well as the inclusion of specialized in the maintenance process in case the system is more advanced. This measure provides benefits without any time limitations.

### Problems to solve

In terms of health benefits, including plants will solve a great number of problems that might arise in confined spaces. In other words, problems that might cause the so-called “sick building syndrome”, a situation in which the users of the physical space experience health problems linked to the time spent in that particular physical space. In more detail, plants manage to purify the air from various viruses or bacteria but also pollutants such as CO2. In addition, plants also regulate indoor humidity levels making the users of the physical space more immune to transmission.

### Value proposition

To sum up, the benefits described above, including plants in your environment will not only clean your air of hazardous components but will also improve your physical as well as psychological health and make the users feel generally more comfortable in a much more aesthetic environment. For instance, besides the improved recovery of patients, it has also been proved that plants were increasing the performance of students.

### Capabilities

Since plants are our most important companion throughout the whole human existence, we have accumulated a very large knowledge base about them which in turn help us understand what plants are the most convenient for this specific use as well as in what environments they strive the most. Moreover, the popularity of vertical gardening technologies made the management of a large number of plants easier than ever before.

### Restrictions and limitations

Even though plants that are simplest to take care of are usually selected for this purpose they still need to meet their lighting, climatic, and growing preconditions. Moreover, methods of air purification and transmission control by plants are still under scrutiny and only a relatively limited number of studies are available at the moment. Last, the exponential spread of users with allergies needs to be taken into account while selecting specific plants.

### Transmission

Indirect

### Scale

GBN

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

nan

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

Yes, there is a possibility of DT for assessing the right temperature, humidity, water levels etc.

### Adverse costs

No





## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* A Mixed Approach on Resilience of Spanish Dwellings and Households during COVID-19 Lockdown - [LINK](article_cuerdo-vilches_mixed_2020)
* Questioning the use of the balcony in apartments during the COVID-19 pandemic process - [LINK](article_aydin_questioning_2020)
* COVID-19 Lockdown: Housing Built Environment’s Effects on Mental Health - [LINK](article_amerio_covid-19_2020)
* Should I Stay or Should I Go? Tourists’ COVID-19 Risk Perception and Vacation Behavior Shift - [LINK](article_bratic_should_2021)
* Seeing the invisible hand: Underlying effects of COVID-19 on tourists’ behavioral patterns - [LINK](article_li_seeing_2020)
* Home garden use during COVID-19: Associations with physical and mental wellbeing in older adults - [LINK](article_corley_home_2021)
* Housing Experience in Gated Communities in the Time of Pandemics: Lessons Learned from COVID-19 - [LINK](article_asfour_housing_2022)
* Biophilic design in architecture and its contributions to health, well-being, and sustainability: A critical review - [LINK](article_zhong_biophilic_2022)
* Psychological Effects of Home Confinement and Social Distancing Derived from COVID-19 in the General Population—A Systematic Review - [LINK](article_rodriguez-fernandez_psychological_2021)
* How Architecture Fails in Conditions of Crisis: a Discussion on the Value of Interior Design over the COVID-19 Outbreak - [LINK](article_rassia_how_2020)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Tender support at building stage - [LINK](bp_9)
* Blueprint: Architecture design - [LINK](bp_2)
* Blueprint: Building Adaptation during a pandemic - [LINK](bp_14)
