# Blueprint: __Resilience in staffing and skills training__ (BP_12)


## Details

* Cluster: __Cluster_10__ (Cluster_10)



## Description

### Blueprint title

Resilience in staffing and skills training

### Idea description

Even before the recent outbreak of pandemics, most employers have developed strategies and tools for their employees to ensure gradual development of their skills while keeping their well-being at an acceptable level. However, the recent pandemics have shown that these strategies and tools have not been resilient and flexible enough. Although employees have had to find their own responses to the impact of the pandemics, many organisations have begun to look for ways to improve resilience across the organisation through improved HR strategies and training.

### Why?

Holistic and resilient human resource strategies and staff training give companies and other employers effective and much more flexible adaptation strategies for times of (not only) epidemiological crisis. By improving their succession and transition plans and being able to replace the skills of one employee with those of a colleague, these organisations will be less vulnerable to potential disruptions in their activities. In addition, the development of this measure will also improve the engagement of staff at different levels of the hierarchy and throughout the organisation, making them more independent and familiar with the tools that facilitate remote working

### Contextual situations

This measure should be implemented in all companies, regardless of their size or sector. To meet the definition of resilience, the appropriate strategies and tools must be deployed from the outset and on an ongoing basis to prepare for potentially disconcerting events. Improving skills can be done virtually (through live or recorded training or training apps and games) or in person, and should be done continuously during calmer times

### Problems to solve

When these strategies and tools are in place, employees are less affected by stressful, disruptive and unusual events and thus less hindered in their work process. Furthermore, a better understanding of market behaviour in times of crisis will help companies to organise their resources efficiently.

### Value proposition

Both businesses and their workforce will be able to maintain a sustainable source of income. Besides, employees will have a chance to take advantage from a broad range of other socio-economic and psychological benefits and adapt to the new streams of working such as more frequent home-office.

### Capabilities

Nowadays digital and conventional training methods are largely available. More and more companies specialising in development of various skillsets. Moreover, massive open online course platforms such as Coursera are offering a plenitude of relevant coursers for free and can help build resilience in organisation with restricted budgets such as small enterprises, schools or NPOs.

### Restrictions and limitations

There are a number of constraints that can hinder the effective use of resilience strategies and related training 
- The individuals developing the strategies may have inadequate backgrounds and may therefore make the strategies less effective. It is also important that the strategies are tailored to the needs of each organisation.
- Some of the trainings may not be available due to high demand or the specificity of the topic
- Smaller organisations may have budget and time constraints that make this intervention necessary
- With the abundance of trainings available, their quality may vary widely 
- Moving training to virtual space isolates staff and can therefore hinder learning and growth.

### Transmission

Both

### Scale

GBN

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

To a smaller extent - Case study on finnish TVET: a resilient model of training during COVID-19 - UNESCO Digital Library

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical & behavioural

### Use of Digital Twin

nan

### Adverse costs

The biggest costs are related to the time and funding for the development of above-mentioned strategies and trainings. However, the investment will be negligible in comparison to the potential costs of response to and recovery from a crisis.

### Associated interventions

Main: HU3 - Staff training / upskilling
Other: 
> MC1 - Minimize supply chain disruptions
> MC3 - Absorb resource shortages
> MC4 - Absorb surge in service demande
> MI3 -Raising awareness

### Technological enablers

Main: New delivery systems
Other: 
> Automation
> SmartPhones
> Social Networks
> Augmented / Virtual Reality

### PartnerInCharge

MM





## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* Case Study on Finnish TVETA Resilient Model of Training During COVID-19 - [LINK](article_unesco_case_2021)
* Sustainable work throughout the life course: National policies and strategies, Publications Office of the European Union - [LINK](article_eurofund_sustainable_2016)
* Using Technology to Maintain the Education of Residents During the COVID-19 Pandemic - [LINK](article_chick_using_2020)
* Risk Diagnosis and Mitigation System of COVID-19 Using Expert System and Web Scraping - [LINK](article_mufid_risk_2020)
* Building sustainable finance for resilient protected and conserved areas: lessons from COVID-19 - [LINK](article_cumming_building_2021)
* Significant applications of virtual reality for COVID-19 pandemic - [LINK](article_singh_significant_2020)
* Exploring the Non-Medical impacts of Covid-19 using Natural Language Processing - [LINK](article_agade_exploring_2020)
* Covid-19 and asset management in EU: a preliminary assessment of performance and investment styles - [LINK](article_rizvi_covid-19_2020)
* Construction of a Linked Data Set of COVID-19 Knowledge Graphs: Development and Applications - [LINK](article_wang_construction_2022)
* Amplifying the role of knowledge translation platforms in the COVID-19 pandemic response - [LINK](article_el-jardali_amplifying_2020)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Smart Locker System - [LINK](bp_1)
* Blueprint: One-way mobility circulation - [LINK](bp_4)
* Blueprint: Rotational Shift System - [LINK](bp_0)
