

## Details

* Cluster: __ontology-datum__ ([Cluster_2](cluster_2))



## Description


### Blueprint title

Good hand hygiene practice

### Idea description

A high level of hand hygiene is a well-known and proven measure to prevent the transmission of diseases. It was and is a widely used strategy to reduce the spread of COVID-19. This blueprint serves as a reminder of this modern measure to ensure that all building occupants adhere to the basic requirement of good hand hygiene to reduce the transmission of disease between building occupants. Discipline in hand hygiene can be increased or maintained through a variety of measures, focusing either on practical measures that provide access to hand washing or disinfecting products, or on information that reminds or guides occupants to use the measures.

### Why?

Good hand hygiene has long been fundamental to patient safety in hospitals and in healthcare in general. By consistently washing and disinfecting our hands, we prevent the spread of infections through hand contact.

### Contextual situations

Hand sanitizers should be available at all key points in the building. This could be at the entrances to the building/premises/populated space, at the entrances and exits of stairwells, in canteen areas, at high use areas such as coffee and vending machines, etc 
Information and instructions for users, e.g. signs at toilets indicating good hand hygiene, reminders to use hand sanitizers at strategic locations, etc.

### Problems to solve

The aim of this design is to reduce the transmission of diseases through direct hand-to-hand contact between users or the transmission of diseases through surfaces (fomites).

### Value proposition

Implementing measures to ensure high hand hygiene is a low-tech measure to reduce infection risks.
These measures are easy to implement and easy to withdraw, which gives them a short response time and high flexibility, also with regard to later relocation in the building.
Implementation and operating costs are relatively low compared to more technically complex and comprehensive measures.

### Capabilities

In order to implement this measure effectively, it is important to assess the primary user group(s) of the building and the impact of their characteristics on the measures to be implemented. For example, the measures would be expressed very differently in a kindergarten than on a university campus. Therefore, it is important to assess this so that the information and active measures are targeted to the current user group to achieve the greatest impact 
Hand hygiene can be monitored directly through user observation or self-reporting, or indirectly by monitoring the consumption of disinfectants (soap and hand sanitazer).

### Restrictions and limitations

Changing user behaviour can be challenging, but once a positive behaviour is established, it is easier to maintain. During the COVID-19 pandemic, shortages of hand sanitizers occurred regularly due to rapidly increasing demand.

### Transmission

Direct contact & Fomite

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

The practice was were widely demonstrated through the COVID-19 pandemic.

### Permanent

Permanent & Temporary

### Technical or behavioural

Behavioural

### Use of Digital Twin

No

### Adverse costs

Frequent use of soap or hand sanitizers may cause dry and irritated skin.

### Associated interventions
```
Main: HU2 - Personal hygiene (eg handwashing)
Other: 
> HU3 - Staff training / upskilling
> MI3 -Raising awareness
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: Telemedicine 
Other: 
> Water sensors
> SmartPhones
> Social Networks
> Digital signagne
```
### PartnerInCharge

COWI



## Mapping 

 ### Interventions

* Raising awareness ([MI3](mi3))
* Personal hygiene (eg handwashing) ([HU2](hu2))
* Staff training / upskilling ([HU3](hu3))
* Raising awareness ([MI3](mi3))
* Personal hygiene (eg handwashing) ([HU2](hu2))
* Staff training / upskilling ([HU3](hu3))

### Technologies

* Wearables
* Water sensors
* 5G




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* The COVID-19 Impact on Flexible Office Space - [LINK](article_clifton_covid-19_2020)
* How the Coronavirus Will Reshape Architecture - [LINK](article_chayka_how_2020)
* Impact of Covid-19 on the built environment - [LINK](article_mahima_impact_2022)
* The Impact of COVID-19 on Public Space: A Review of the Emerging Questions - [LINK](article_honey-roses_impact_2020)
* Navigating Climate Change: Rethinking the Role of Buildings - [LINK](article_cole_navigating_2020)
* Social distancing enhanced automated optimal design of physical spaces in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic - [LINK](article_ugail_social_2021)
* How Architecture Fails in Conditions of Crisis: a Discussion on the Value of Interior Design over the COVID-19 Outbreak - [LINK](article_rassia_how_2020)
* Designing for COVID-2x: Reflecting on Future-Proofing Human Habitation for the Inevitable Next Pandemic - [LINK](article_spennemann_designing_2022)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Tender support at building stage - [LINK](bp_9)
* Blueprint: Architecture design - [LINK](bp_2)
* Blueprint: Public places as information points - [LINK](bp_8)
