# Blueprint: __Rotating groups at work, school best against COVID-19 spread: Study__ (BP_13)


## Details

* Cluster: __processing-wireless__ ([Cluster_1](cluster_1))



## Description


### Blueprint title

Negative pressure rooms

### Idea description

A negative pressure room is a confined space within a building whose main purpose is to keep people with contagious diseases away from other people and to limit cross-contamination in the building through a special ventilation mechanism. This mechanism uses an internal air pressure that is lower than the external one, so that outside air is continuously drawn into the negative pressure room. The infectious particles in the air of the isolation room are captured and exhausted through the same exhaust system that creates the negative pressure in the room. Most of these exhaust systems consist of a HEPA (High Efficiency Particle Air) filter filtering 99.9 % of the particles in the air, others dilute the infectious particles with large amounts of clean air.

### Why?

As mentioned earlier, negative pressure rooms are one of the best ways to isolate a person or group that is either potentially or demonstrably infectious and contain any airborne infectious particles. Creating negative pressure in the specific enclosed areas prevents cross-contamination of other areas of the building.

### Contextual situations

This measure is to be applied in all buildings (but especially in hospitals) in scenarios where filtering out infectious particles from the air is most urgent, i.e. during epidemics, and also when immediate measures need to be taken to protect vulnerable people (the elderly, the sick...).

### Problems to solve

Apart from preventively limiting air pressure in certain areas that have the greatest potential for disease transmission (such as bathrooms or common areas), specially equipped rooms to isolate contagious people will solve a major problem, namely what to do in the first cases with someone who is ill or has been in critical contact with a contagious person at the same time.

### Value proposition

Rooms with negative pressure allow contagious particles to be isolated within a room and thus do not pose a risk to people outside the room. The organisation can thus have better control over the possible spread of various diseases 
These rooms provide an immediate and effective resource for controlling a disease outbreak and give building operators additional time to decide how to proceed.

### Capabilities

Today, converting an existing HVAC system to negative pressure can be done quickly, as it mainly requires revising the system controls by rewriting the code, retuning the air distribution components, and installing HEPA philtres at specific locations. It has also been proven that a simple isolation room can be set up within an hour when negative pressure is needed, thanks to portable, high-efficiency airflow filters.

### Restrictions and limitations

There are also several limitations to this particular measure 
- Negative pressure rooms provide a high degree of protection for people who are outside the isolation rooms, but those who enter the room have no protection against infection. It is therefore recommended that personal protective equipment (PPE) be used if people with unconfirmed disease enter the room. To ensure that the disease is not transmitted from the PPE, an ante-room where the change into normal clothing takes place might be necessary 
- Some technical aspects of the process, such as the fact that the room must be ventilated a total of 12 times every hour, must be closely monitored. This includes monitoring the temperature and humidity in the room, as the increased air extraction can be uncomfortable for the users of the room.

### Transmission

Both

### Scale

Building

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

Many hospitals around the whole Globe feature negative pressure rooms, even more after the spread of COVID-19[1]

### Permanent

Permanent or temporary, depending on need.

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

Yes, a DT would be a great addition to this measure as continuous monitoring of pressure (as well as some other indicators) is crucial for its functioning. Relevant sensors and monitors should be placed in the isolation rooms. Moreover, in hospitals, an admission-discharge-transfer (ADT) feeds and notifications within electronic health records (EHRs) can be linked to HVAC system that would be able to create negative pressure in the room where the patient is stationed.

### Adverse costs

No major adverse cost – cost of such room is bearable and low-cost alternatives can be also developed.

### Associated interventions
```
Main: PA8 - Control of airflows (airtight / negative pressure)
Other: 
> PA1 - Use of smart/innovative air quality controls technology
> PA4 - Monitor and control indoor air quality
> PA5 - Control airflows in spaces & Avoid air recirculation
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: Smart HVAC
Other: 
>Automation
> Air sensors 
> HEPA filters
```
### PartnerInCharge

MM



## Mapping 

 ### Interventions

* Use of smart/innovative air quality controls technology ([PA1](pa1))
* Monitor and control indoor air quality ([PA4](pa4))
* Control of airflows (airtight / negative pressure) ([PA8](pa8))
* Control airflows in spaces & Avoid air recirculation ([PA5](pa5))
* Use of smart/innovative air quality controls technology ([PA1](pa1))
* Monitor and control indoor air quality ([PA4](pa4))
* Control of airflows (airtight / negative pressure) ([PA8](pa8))
* Control airflows in spaces & Avoid air recirculation ([PA5](pa5))

### Technologies

* Visualization
* Data Analytics
* Air Sensors




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* COVID-19 Forced Hospitals to Build Negative Pressure Rooms Fast - [LINK](article_dyer_covid-19_2020)
* Rapid expansion of temporary, reliable airborne-infection isolation rooms with negative air machines for critical COVID-19 patients - [LINK](article_lee_rapid_2020)
* Toilets dominate environmental detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus in a hospital - [LINK](article_ding_toilets_2020)
* Aerosol and Surface Distribution of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 in Hospital Wards, Wuhan, China, 2020 - [LINK](article_guo_aerosol_2020)
* Air, Surface Environmental, and Personal Protective Equipment Contamination by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) From a Symptomatic Patient - [LINK](article_ong_air_2020)
* SARS-CoV-2 RNA detection of hospital isolation wards hygiene monitoring during the Coronavirus Disease 2019 outbreak in a Chinese hospital - [LINK](article_wang_sars-cov-2_2020)
* The removal of airborne SARS-CoV-2 and other microbial bioaerosols by air filtration on COVID-19 surge units - [LINK](article_conway-morris_removal_2021)
* DeepSOCIAL: Social Distancing Monitoring and Infection Risk Assessment in COVID-19 Pandemic - [LINK](article_rezaei_deepsocial_2020)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Resilience in staffing and skills training - [LINK](bp_12)
* Blueprint: Installing UV in ductwork - [LINK](bp_10)
* Blueprint: Smart Locker System - [LINK](bp_1)
