# Blueprint: __Monitoring of wastewater__ (BP_21)


## Details

* Cluster: __Cluster_9__ (Cluster_9)



## Description

### Blueprint title

Monitoring of wastewater

### Idea description

Already a year ago, the European Commission recommended that EU member states set up a wastewater monitoring programme to track COVID -19 and its variants. As a result, some 1 370 wastewater treatment plants in the EU are now regularly monitored. This draft aims to transfer this practise to the neighbourhood level. Monitoring of wastewater has proven to be a reliable source of information to contain the spread of the virus. In this context, the following concept proposes to equip relevant wastewater facilities with digital tools and sensors to collect real-time data on pathogen concentrations for guidelines and policy decisions.

### Why?

Past experience with other viral diseases, such as polio, hepatitis A and norovirus, has shown that effluent-based epidemiology is an effective tool to detect the presence of pathogens and provide a clear indication of increasing or decreasing transmission. In addition, continuous monitoring of wastewater enables early detection of viral mutations/variants that allow precautionary measures to be taken. On the other hand, the good correlation between the number of COVID -19 cases and the concentration of pathogens measured in some EU wastewater treatment plants shows that this approach is effective in controlling the development of pandemics.

### Contextual situations

This measure is effective as long as the residential area is in operation 
The more people living in the neighbourhood, the more representative the data.

### Problems to solve

The water in the sewage system serves as an early warning system for the outbreak of a disease in the urban population. This means that contaminated sewage also serves as a medium for the spread of disease 
Surveillance and monitoring of pathogens in wastewater complements current infectious disease surveillance systems and serves as an early warning system for disease outbreaks.

### Value proposition

In general terms, this blueprint provides a cheap, rapid and robust tool of tracking diseases. The ability of this measure to rapidly monitor the spread of disease is key for prevention, intervention and control.

### Capabilities

For this measure to be effective, it is of utmost importance to select a broad panel of markers that provide information on (i) pathogenic organisms (bacteria and viruses), (ii) biochemical markers associated with physiological responses, (iii) markers for intervention (drugs) and (iv) markers for antimicrobial resistance.

### Restrictions and limitations

Although no data is collected on specific individuals, several ethical aspects of this measure can be discussed. It is generally accepted that a population size of more than > 10,000 is sufficient to ensure anonymity and not pose a risk. This number is far from the number of people who might live in a neighbourhood. As a result, some people might be stigmatised by the measure. On the other hand, a smaller number of people may also have an impact on the sensitivity of the system (lower concentrations of pathogens).

### Transmission

Direct

### Scale

GBN

### Phase

Operational

### Demonstrated

(i)https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7245320/
(ii)https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.estlett.0c00357
(iii)https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7566278/

### Permanent

Permanent

### Technical or behavioural

Technical

### Use of Digital Twin

Yes

### Adverse costs

High equipment cost
Need for regular system maintenance on site

### Associated interventions
```
Main: MP3 - Early detection
Other: 
> MP1 - Infection tracking / monitoring
> MP2 - Quarantine support
> PW2 - Maintenance / decontamination of building water sytems
> PW4 - Greywater management
> MC1 - Minimize supply chain disruptions
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: Automation
Other: 
> Water sensors
> 5G
> IoT
```
### PartnerInCharge

CID


### Interventions

* Infection tracking / monitoring (MP1)
* Quarantine support (MP2)
* Minimize supply chain disruptions (MC1)
* Maintenance / decontamination of building water sytems (PW2)
* Early detection (MP3)
* Greywater management (PW4)

### Technologies

* Water sensors
* IoT
* 5G




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* Future perspectives of wastewater-based epidemiology: Monitoring infectious disease spread and resistance to the community level - [LINK](article_sims_future_2020)
* Computational analysis of SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 surveillance by wastewater-based epidemiology locally and globally: Feasibility, economy, opportunities and challenges - [LINK](article_hart_computational_2020)
* Wastewater surveillance for population-wide Covid-19: The present and future - [LINK](article_daughton_wastewater_2020)
* When the fourth water and digital revolution encountered COVID-19 - [LINK](article_poch_when_2020)
* SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater: potential health risk, but also data source - [LINK](article_lodder_sars-cov-2_2020)
* Wastewater-Based Epidemiology to monitor COVID-19 outbreak: Present and future diagnostic methods to be in your radar - [LINK](article_barcelo_wastewater-based_2020)
* Presence of SARS-Coronavirus-2 RNA in Sewage and Correlation with Reported COVID-19 Prevalence in the Early Stage of the Epidemic in The Netherlands - [LINK](article_medema_presence_2020)
* First detection of SARS-CoV-2 in untreated wastewaters in Italy - [LINK](article_la_rosa_first_2020)
* An environmental and health perspective for COVID-19 outbreak: Meteorology and air quality influence, sewage epidemiology indicator, hospitals disinfection, drug therapies and recommendations - [LINK](article_barcelo_environmental_2020)
* SARS-CoV-2 RNA in wastewater anticipated COVID-19 occurrence in a low prevalence area - [LINK](article_randazzo_sars-cov-2_2020)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Installing high-efficiency air filters - [LINK](bp_11)
* Blueprint: Smart Locker System - [LINK](bp_1)
* Blueprint: Rotational Shift System - [LINK](bp_0)
