

## Details

* Cluster: __ontology-datum__ ([Cluster_2](cluster_2))



## Description


### Blueprint title

Infection tracking & monitoring

### Idea description

Tracking and surveillance of infections allows better assessment of the spread of an epidemic in real time. Depending on the extent of the monitoring and tracking, this method will allow the determination of characteristic elements of the epidemic, such as its virulence factor and infectivity. This will allow real-time risk assessment, which is crucial for decision-making to ensure the safety of GBN residents. It is expected that a clear testing and surveillance strategy would be adapted at the GBN and/or building level and applied in the event of a pandemic. Potential disease tracking would be achieved through the use of rapid antigen testing to rapidly identify some very infectious individuals and PCR testing for individuals who have been in close contact with the infected person.

### Why?

Tracking infections is useful in the first phase of the spread of an epidemic, especially if it is a new epidemic. However, tracking an epidemic first requires establishing a case definition of when a person is considered infected. Once this starting point is established, tracking the disease will provide information on transmission routes, transmission rates, virulence and consequences. This initial information will serve as the basis for developing (or adapting) the response plan to ensure the safety of GBN residents. In a second phase, infection surveillance will support the evaluation of the effectiveness of the response plan and thus the hopefully declining spread of the epidemic based on the same case definition as in the tracking phase. This includes the identification of persons who have been in close contact with a person who has tested positive for a disease with a higher transmission potential.

### Contextual situations

Depending on the case definition, infection tracking and surveillance for non-residents could be done every time they enter a GBN, while tracking and surveillance for residents in GBNs could be updated daily, regardless of whether they have spent the entire last 24 hours in a GBN or not.

### Problems to solve

As far as tracking and surveillance of infections is concerned, the challenge lies in the efficiency and reliability of tracking and surveillance methods and devices. These are directly related to case definition and thus knowledge of the disease. However, if it is an unknown or new epidemic, the case definition cannot be accurately confirmed, creating grey areas where the epidemic can spread unnoticed.

### Value proposition

Infection tracking and monitoring is a robust decision-making tool that supports the implementation and updating of the security strategy in the event of an epidemic by providing real-time data that is critical in such an event.

### Capabilities

Tracking and surveillance of infections must be efficient by tracking and monitoring diseases in all residents of the GBN, but also in all persons who enter the GBN during the day, whether for a delivery, a job or a service. The tracking and surveillance material should be able to detect common infectious viruses or bacteria as well as all types of registered epidemic diseases. In addition, the system must be updated as soon as health authorities report a new disease or disease outbreak. Also, the  use of robots who are able to diagnose a disease is on the rise and it is expectable that the need for human resources will be lower for testing purposes.

### Restrictions and limitations

The restrictions and limitations of this proposal primarily concern data collected through tracking and surveillance. These data, in particular individual identity and health status, should only be used for their original purpose, namely tracking and surveillance of infections and nothing else. Furthermore, there should be no abuse in terms of the number of tests performed on individuals, unless they are authorised by a specific authority.

### Transmission

All

### Scale

Both

### Phase

Design & Operational

### Demonstrated

During the outbreak of COVID -19 this method was frequently used and proved to be efficient.

### Permanent

Permanent & Temporary

### Technical or behavioural

Technical & Behavioural

### Use of Digital Twin

Potetially

### Adverse costs

-The costs of The tracking tests and The manhour to do them.
- The cost of data treatment 
- The environmental impact from the plastic waste from the disposables                                   -Testing can be inaccurate and can give false sense of security or vice-versa.

### Associated interventions
```
Main:  MP1 - Infection tracking/monitoring
Other: 
> MP3 - Early detection
> MI4 - Promote verified information
> MI1 - Prevent fake news
```
### Technological enablers
```
Main: Disease testing equipement
Other: 
> Telemedecine 
> Robots, Drones & Automated Vehicules
> Big data
> Data Analytics
```
### PartnerInCharge

RES



## Mapping 

 ### Interventions

* Infection tracking / monitoring ([MP1](mp1))
* Prevent fake news ([MI1](mi1))
* Promote verified information ([MI4](mi4))
* Early detection ([MP3](mp3))
* Infection tracking / monitoring ([MP1](mp1))
* Prevent fake news ([MI1](mi1))
* Promote verified information ([MI4](mi4))
* Early detection ([MP3](mp3))

### Technologies

* 5G
* IoT




## Neighbours

### Closest articles

* Future perspectives of wastewater-based epidemiology: Monitoring infectious disease spread and resistance to the community level - [LINK](article_sims_future_2020)
* When the fourth water and digital revolution encountered COVID-19 - [LINK](article_poch_when_2020)
* Computational analysis of SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 surveillance by wastewater-based epidemiology locally and globally: Feasibility, economy, opportunities and challenges - [LINK](article_hart_computational_2020)
* The COVID-19 pandemic: Considerations for the waste and wastewater services sector - [LINK](article_nghiem_covid-19_2020)
* An environmental and health perspective for COVID-19 outbreak: Meteorology and air quality influence, sewage epidemiology indicator, hospitals disinfection, drug therapies and recommendations - [LINK](article_barcelo_environmental_2020)
* SARS-CoV-2 RNA in wastewater anticipated COVID-19 occurrence in a low prevalence area - [LINK](article_randazzo_sars-cov-2_2020)
* Disinfection technology of hospital wastes and wastewater: Suggestions for disinfection strategy during coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic in China - [LINK](article_wang_disinfection_2020)
* Wastewater-Based Epidemiology to monitor COVID-19 outbreak: Present and future diagnostic methods to be in your radar - [LINK](article_barcelo_wastewater-based_2020)
* First confirmed detection of SARS-CoV-2 in untreated wastewater in Australia: A proof of concept for the wastewater surveillance of COVID-19 in the community - [LINK](article_ahmed_first_2020)


### Closest BPs

* Blueprint: Enhancing physical activity - [LINK](bp_21)
* Blueprint: Resilience in staffing and skills training - [LINK](bp_12)
* Blueprint: Smart Locker System - [LINK](bp_1)
